AdvertisementSupported byBy The Associated PressThe deadly attack at Columbine High School in 1999 seemed to usher in a new era of school shootings.Two decades later, polls consistently capture growing fears among American parents that their children face imminent danger whenever they go to school. Those fears have only intensified since attacks at an elementary school in 2012 in Newtown, Connecticut, and last year at a high school in Parkland, Florida.In the aftermath of the Parkland shooting, some research suggests that some type of school gun violence happens almost daily in the United States. Other studies indicate that deaths from school violence have actually declined since 1991. Answers to some key questions about school attacks over the last several decades:WHAT ARE AMERICANS' PERCEPTIONS OF SCHOOL SHOOTINGS?A March survey by The Associated Press-NORC Center for Public Affairs Research found that a majority of Americans believe schools and colleges, along with places of worship, have become less safe compared with 20 years ago.Wide shares of Americans also believe parents, the internet and news coverage of similar attacks are at least partly to blame for school shootings.About 2 in 10 parents are not at all confident or not very confident in their child's safety while at school. About a third of parents are very confident or extremely confident, according to the poll. But fewer Americans put blame for shootings on schools themselves.WHAT DO THE DATA SHOW?According to data compiled by Northeastern University criminologist James Alan Fox, who has been researching gun violence for decades, school shootings were more frequent in the 1990s than today. From 1991 until the Columbine shooting, an average of 19 fatal school shootings happened each year, with about 22 people killed.In contrast, over the past eight years, an average of about six fatal school shootings happened each year, with about 14 killed."First of all, schools are safe, and if you consider the over 50 million schoolchildren and the over 100,000 schools that we have, the risk of a student or a faculty member being killed by gunfire, it's extremely low," Fox told AP. "The one-homicide-is-too-many mantra is quite true. Yet when you do the calculations, the probability is very small."Other data, such as that compiled by Everytown for Gun Safety, captures a broader spectrum of gun-related violence, including non-fatal shootings and drive-by shootings in which the perpetrators do not have a direct connection to the school. That research paints a different picture that suggests gun violence — from random gunfire to suicides — is a frequent occurrence.Everytown, which began tracking school shootings after Newtown, notes that attacks such as those at Sandy Hook Elementary School and Marjory Stoneman Douglas High School are not commonplace and represent less than 1 percent of the school gun-violence incidents.WHAT DRIVES THE PERCEPTION THAT SCHOOL SHOOTINGS ARE ON THE RISE?Fox chalks much of it up to the attention such crimes receive in the news. A generation ago, there were many fewer cable TV news channels and websites covering the events 24 hours a day.One school shooting he cites happened in 1989, when a gunman killed five elementary school students and wounded 32. The shooting in Stockton, California, is barely remembered.Columbine was among the mass shootings in recent decades that sparked the "No Notoriety" movement, an appeal by both gun-control and gun-rights activists to avoid repeated reporting of the names and biographic details of gunmen. They hope denying attention to the attackers prevents inspiring a new crop of future shooters.HOW HAVE SHOOTINGS EVOLVED?The early 1990s were plagued by a high homicide rate overall around the country, and that's reflected in school shootings. Many of the attacks in that decade were gang-related. Gang warfare spilled out from the streets into the halls of the schools, but those shootings "were not the type of events that got a lot of attention, except for locally," Fox said.AdvertisementSupported by“We’ve found that many gun owners are frustrated that the gun lobby claims to be speaking for them,” Ms. Giffords said in an interview about the advocacy group she formed in Minnesota.By Maggie AstorOn Thursday, two days before the 20th anniversary of the mass shooting at Columbine High School, former Representative Gabrielle Giffords went to Minnesota to announce the creation of a gun safety advocacy group.The group’s agenda is predictable: It will lobby for universal background checks and an extreme risk protection law, which would allow the temporary confiscation of guns from people believed to pose an imminent threat to themselves or others. Its composition is not: The members are all gun owners.The group, Minnesota Gun Owners for Safety, is the second of its kind from Ms. Giffords’s namesake organization, which she founded after the shooting that almost killed her. (The first, in Colorado, started in January.) Ms. Giffords and her husband, Mark Kelly, who is running for Senate in Arizona, own guns themselves and argue that gun ownership can coexist with significantly stricter gun laws.[Make sense of the people, issues and ideas shaping American politics with our newsletter.]In an interview, conducted by email and lightly edited for length, Ms. Giffords discussed the new group and reflected on what has, and hasn’t, changed in the eight years since she was shot.Q. Gun owners have always been involved in the gun violence prevention movement in some capacity. What’s the benefit of creating formal groups specifically for them? A. When you speak up, others listen. For too long, a few very loud voices drowned out any sensible conversation on this issue. Meanwhile, gun violence increased. From my experiences in public service, I learned firsthand that change doesn’t happen until people start to demand it. Lawmakers pay attention when folks are organized around a goal.In many ways, these groups echo back to when we first launched our organization. As gun owners from a state like Arizona, we felt like our viewpoint was missing from the larger debate about gun violence. We wanted to change that by lifting up more people like us. What are you hoping to achieve with these groups?We’ve found that many gun owners are frustrated that the gun lobby claims to be speaking for them. So one important goal for us is to provide more gun owners the opportunity to share their ideas and experiences, and take action. Over time, I think you’ll start to see it bridge divides between people who might not always talk to each other. We don’t want conversations to stop on this issue. We want them to start. That will help break up the power of the gun lobby, too. The gun lobby can’t hide behind money and extremist rhetoric when gun owners are coming together to push for responsible ownership, laws that save lives and a deeper appreciation for what it means to own and use firearms. There is a big disconnect between the specific policies you’re pushing for, which are popular, and the “take your guns away” agenda that some opponents think you’re pushing for. People have been trying to bridge that gap for years, but it hasn’t gone away. What do you need to do differently?That’s what makes Minnesota Gun Owners for Safety, and groups like it, so important. I can’t think of a better way to fix that disconnect than to show how in reality, people that love to hunt or have firearms at home for protection are also in favor of improving the background check system. Or keeping guns out of the hands of domestic abusers. More and more people are responding to gun violence as a personal issue. They don’t want to see their neighbors or their family or friends get shot. People are pushing back against the false notion that any action to pass laws results in less freedom. In fact, it can bring us more.You and your husband are gun owners yourselves, yet you’re often cast as an enemy of the Second Amendment who just wants to take guns away. For years, the gun lobby motivated supporters through fear and falsehoods. But when you travel the country and actually meet people where they are at, it becomes obvious that those lies don’t work. Most people want their families and communities to be safe. What they fear most is what the country has become: a place where everyone is afraid that no place is safe. A park, a concert, a classroom, a church, an office — they could all be the site of another shooting. They don’t want this to be America’s reality any longer. Look at what’s happening to the N.R.A. Its popularity is down, its leadership is fighting and it lost many of its champions in the 2018 election. What happened? The N.R.A. shifted from an organization that actually tried to represent gun owners to a special interest group concerned with extreme politics and industry profits. When you cast the enemy as everyone who thinks differently than you, there won’t be many friends left to support you.What approaches have you found most effective in reaching common ground with gun owners who are suspicious of your motives? We listen. We respect the views of others. We start conversations that often end up with us agreeing on more than we think we will at the beginning. We explain our views — we use facts. But we’ll never back down from fighting for what we believe is right. Sensible gun laws are not controversial to hunters, or parents, or a collector, or a police officer. It’s possible to have strong gun laws while also respecting the rights of responsible gun owners.You’re as familiar as anybody, I imagine, with the false narratives that developed after the background check and assault weapons bill failed in Congress in 2013: the “nothing changed after Sandy Hook” narrative, and then the fatalistic “if Sandy Hook didn’t cause an epiphany on guns, nothing ever will” narrative. Do you run into those often? What do you say?Yes. I tell people to remember that change is a marathon, not a sprint — and that it’s happening. It’s easy to forget how young the modern gun safety movement is. Mark and I started our organization just six years ago, after the horrific school shooting in Newtown. Since our organization began, nearly 300 gun safety laws have passed at the state level. Look at the new generation of activists who rose up after Parkland. They pointed out the failures of politicians to keep them safe, and we turned the 2018 election into a rallying cry for gun safety. The House of Representatives became the first majority in a generation to pass major gun reform laws. It’s one of the signature issues of the new Congress, is being talked about by every Democrat running for president, and will be an important way to draw contrast with President Trump’s priorities and vision of the future. It’s not easy, but step by step we are making progress.I can imagine your work is both physically and mentally draining, especially because the movement is so slow. Do you ever get discouraged? What I took for granted before my shooting now requires hours upon hours of hard work. Speaking is difficult. Not everyone realizes it. My right arm and right leg are still mostly paralyzed. But I try to focus on the things I can do, and I draw strength from my work. AdvertisementSupported byConcern about mass shootings has lifted spending on studies and attracted a new generation of researchers.By Margot Sanger-KatzIn 1996, the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention stopped funding research into the causes of gun violence. And for decades the field suffered from neglect: low funding and a corresponding limited interest in academia. Then came a series of high-profile mass shootings. And donations from billionaires. A result has been a recent surge in state and private funding for gun research, and a revival in interest among journal editors and young academics beginning their careers.“It’s not just the availability of money for research,” said Jeremy Travis, the executive vice president for criminal justice at Arnold Ventures. “The zeitgeist has changed.”Last year, Arnold Ventures, a foundation established by John and Laura Arnold, announced a splashy investment: It would be spending $20 million to fund research grants in the field, administering the grants through the nonpartisan RAND Corporation. And Kaiser Permanente, the health care provider, has set aside $2 million for its own research program.Michael Bloomberg, the media executive and former New York mayor, has been spending on gun research for years. His sponsorship of endowed faculty positions at Johns Hopkins in the Center for Gun Policy and Research has helped several scholars.States have begun making investments in gun research, too. A $5 million investment from California has led to the formation of the Violence Prevention Research Program at the University of California, Davis. New Jersey’s legislature approved $2 million to establish a center at Rutgers University. Several more states and the District of Columbia are considering similar programs.“All these new people are coming,” said Garen Wintemute, a professor who directs the program at Davis. “It used to be a dozen people in the country — now there are a dozen people in my building.”Mr. Wintemute has made gun violence the central topic of his work. But for much of his career, funding was scarce, and he often dipped into his salary to subsidize the costs of his research.  He said he expected the new investments to result in significant new advances; he described a big folder of study ideas in his office that might finally be realized.In Washington, research funding on this divisive topic remains anemic. A recent analysis found that gun research receives substantially less funding from the federal government than research for other major causes of death — only 1.6 percent of the funding the researchers would have predicted based on spending on comparable health problems. Gun deaths, the majority of which are from suicide, are roughly the same in number as deaths from sepsis, for example. But federal research funding for gun violence is only about 0.7 percent of that for sepsis.CancerH.I.V.DiabetesHeart diseaseLung disease$10 billion in federal fundingCerebrovascular diseaseAlzheimer’s diseaseHypertensionAtherosclerosisParkinson’s diseaseSepsisMalnutritionViral hepatitisAspirationInfluenza and pneumonia$1 billionFiresPoisoningNephritis, nephrotic syndrome, and nephrosisBiliary tract diseaseIntestinal infectionMotor vehiclesAsphyxiaPeptic ulcer$100 millionPenetrating woundsHerniaGun violenceDrowning$20 million$10 millionFalls1 death per 100,000 people1050100150200CancerH.I.V.DiabetesHeart disease$10 billionHypertensionAtherosclerosisParkinson’s diseaseMalnutritionViral hepatitisInfluenza and pneumonia$1 billionPoisoningFiresIntestinal infectionMotor vehiclesAsphyxiaPeptic ulcer$100 millionHerniaGun violenceDrowning$20 million$10 millionFalls1 death per 100k people1050100150CancerH.I.V.Heart diseaseDiabetes$10 billionHypertensionMalnutrition$1 billionFiresPoisoningMotor vehiclesAsphyxia$100 millionGun violence$20 million$10 million1 death per100k peopleFalls1050100From 2004 to 2014David Stark and Nigam Shah, Funding and Publication of Research on Gun Violence and Other Leading Causes of DeathBy The New York TimesShani Buggs is part of the new generation of gun researchers. When she went to school for public health seven years ago, she didn’t even know that violence was a subject she could pursue. She’s now a postdoctoral fellow at the gun violence center at U.C. Davis, studying interactions between drug markets, policing and urban gun violence.Ms. Buggs said that the new money had not been her only motivator, but that it did make her feel more secure about her future. “It’s exciting,” she said. “What’s most exciting about it is that the increase in dollars will bring more researchers to the field.”In an Upshot survey last year, researchers expressed interest in knowing more about many subjects, including the factors that lead individuals to commit gun violence — Ms. Buggs’s focus. They also sought research into how criminals obtain their guns and the effects of various gun policies, such as new state laws that allow courts to temporarily confiscate guns from people who are deemed a risk to commit violence. Such legislation has passed in 14 states — 11 since 2016.Research publications on gun violence also appear to be rising, reflecting an enhanced interest by journal editors, not just scholars. “There’s new names on a lot of these publications,” said Ted Alcorn, an instructor at Columbia whose analysis of gun-related science publications over the past few decades was published in JAMA Internal Medicine. His study found that gun research had declined as a share of science research since the mid-1990s, but that it began to rise sharply in 2012, the year of the Sandy Hook school shooting in Connecticut.The C.D.C. effectively stopped funding original research on gun violence after the passage of legislation in 1996 (the Dickey Amendment) that barred the use of C.D.C. funds to “advocate or promote gun control.” Republican legislators had objected to government-funded research concluding that having a gun in the home increased the risk of harm. But even before the Dickey amendment, the C.D.C. spent just $2.6 million a year on gun violence research. The National Institutes of Health funds some gun-related research, but not much. Many major players in the field continue to lobby for a larger federal role, despite the new infusions of outside funding. At a recent hearing before a House appropriation subcommittee, Andrew Morral, a senior behavioral scientist at RAND, said there were some research tasks, like collecting and disseminating national statistics on gun injuries, that required government involvement. He pointed to other public health crises — like car crashes, H.I.V. and cigarette smoking — in which research led the way to big reductions in mortality. AdvertisementSupported byBy The Associated PressTAMARAC, Fla. — Authorities say a Florida man left threatening rants about gun control, illegal immigration, homosexuals, black people and Muslims for three Democratic members of Congress.The U.S. Attorney's Office says 49-year-old John Kless was arrested Friday and charged with making threatening communications.A federal criminal complaint says Kless called the Washington offices of Rep. Eric Swalwell of California, Rep. Rashida Tlaib of Michigan and Sen. Cory Booker of New Jersey on Tuesday and left profanity-laden voicemails for each politician. The messages specifically mentioned the elected officials being killed. Swalwell and Booker are both running for president.AdvertisementSupported byBy ReutersLITTLETON, Colo.  — Last month, Kaylee Tyner and other students at Columbine High School launched a campaign dubbed #MyLastShot, asking students across the country to pledge to publicize images of their deaths if they became victims of a mass shooting.  The project asks students to download the pledge from the group’s website and affix it to a driver’s license, school identification card or cell phone to be used as a directive, similar to an organ donor's card, if they become shooting victims.“In the event that I die from gun violence, please publicize the photo of my death,” the pledge reads. The #MyLastShot group is asking relatives to share the grisly images of a death across social media in their campaign for gun control.About 7,000 people have taken the pledge, she said.The group's website, http://www.mylastshot.org, says the public should not be shielded from the gruesome scenes of mass shootings.“The media censors those images. But if we can’t handle the reality of what our gun violence epidemic is causing, we’ll remain stuck on a loop,” the group wrote. A Florida teenager who authorities said was armed, dangerous and "infatuated" with the Columbine massacre became the latest victim of the Columbine tragedy on Wednesday. Sol Pais, an 18-year-old student from Surfside, Florida, was found dead about 40 miles (64 km) west of Columbine High School in Littleton, apparently from a self-inflicted gun shot wound."Part of me feels bad that she was mentally ill, didn't get help, and all this ended in her death," Tyner said on Wednesday in a text message. "But I also am frustrated as she caused such a huge disruption with her threats and her infatuation with Columbine." A 1955 PHOTONeither Kaylee Tyner, nor any of her classmates at Columbine High School were alive on April 20, 1999, when a mass shooting at their school marked a modern era of mass school shootings.But the long shadow cast by the tragedy, when two seniors at the school shot to death a teacher and 12 fellow students before turning their guns on themselves, hovers over the community, a middle-class suburb southwest of Denver.“Growing up in the Columbine community, it’s always been an issue,” Tyner, 17, told Reuters in an interview.Beyond what occurred at her school, Tyner and other student activists were dismayed by a recent spree of mass shootings, including one last year at Marjory Stoneman Douglas High in Parkland, Fla., in which 17 people died.But it was a 1955 photo of the open casket funeral for Emmett Till, a 14-year-old African-American who was lynched in Mississippi for purportedly flirting with a white woman, that inspired Tyner to take a drastic approach to combating gun violence.“The graphic images of his death revealed the realities of racism and sparked the civil rights movement,” Tyner said. “I knew that there was something huge missing from the gun violence prevention movement.”While active in other gun-control activities – including her support for a “red flag” law recently passed in Colorado that allows guns to be seized from a person deemed a threat – Tyner said the campaign seeks to create change at a cultural, as well as a legislative level.The goal, Tyner said, is “to spark a conversation.” She knows the project is controversial. The group has received some negative feedback, which she expected.AdvertisementSupported byBy The Associated PressThe deadly attack at Columbine High School in 1999 seemed to usher in a new era of school shootings.Two decades later, polls consistently capture growing fears among American parents that their children face imminent danger whenever they go to school. Those fears have only intensified since attacks at an elementary school in 2012 in Newtown, Connecticut, and last year at a high school in Parkland, Florida.In the aftermath of the Parkland shooting, some research suggests that some type of school gun violence happens almost daily in the United States. Other studies indicate that deaths from school violence have actually declined since 1991. Answers to some key questions about school attacks over the last several decades:WHAT ARE AMERICANS' PERCEPTIONS OF SCHOOL SHOOTINGS?A March survey by The Associated Press-NORC Center for Public Affairs Research found that a majority of Americans believe schools and colleges, along with places of worship, have become less safe compared with 20 years ago.Wide shares of Americans also believe parents, the internet and news coverage of similar attacks are at least partly to blame for school shootings.About 2 in 10 parents are not at all confident or not very confident in their child's safety while at school. About a third of parents are very confident or extremely confident, according to the poll. But fewer Americans put blame for shootings on schools themselves.WHAT DO THE DATA SHOW?According to data compiled by Northeastern University criminologist James Alan Fox, who has been researching gun violence for decades, school shootings were more frequent in the 1990s than today. From 1991 until the Columbine shooting, an average of 19 fatal school shootings happened each year, with about 22 people killed.In contrast, over the past eight years, an average of about six fatal school shootings happened each year, with about 14 killed."First of all, schools are safe, and if you consider the over 50 million schoolchildren and the over 100,000 schools that we have, the risk of a student or a faculty member being killed by gunfire, it's extremely low," Fox told AP. "The one-homicide-is-too-many mantra is quite true. Yet when you do the calculations, the probability is very small."Other data, such as that compiled by Everytown for Gun Safety, captures a broader spectrum of gun-related violence, including non-fatal shootings and drive-by shootings in which the perpetrators do not have a direct connection to the school. That research paints a different picture that suggests gun violence — from random gunfire to suicides — is a frequent occurrence.Everytown, which began tracking school shootings after Newtown, notes that attacks such as those at Sandy Hook Elementary School and Marjory Stoneman Douglas High School are not commonplace and represent less than 1 percent of the school gun-violence incidents.WHAT DRIVES THE PERCEPTION THAT SCHOOL SHOOTINGS ARE ON THE RISE?Fox chalks much of it up to the attention such crimes receive in the news. A generation ago, there were many fewer cable TV news channels and websites covering the events 24 hours a day.One school shooting he cites happened in 1989, when a gunman killed five elementary school students and wounded 32. The shooting in Stockton, California, is barely remembered.Columbine was among the mass shootings in recent decades that sparked the "No Notoriety" movement, an appeal by both gun-control and gun-rights activists to avoid repeated reporting of the names and biographic details of gunmen. They hope denying attention to the attackers prevents inspiring a new crop of future shooters.HOW HAVE SHOOTINGS EVOLVED?The early 1990s were plagued by a high homicide rate overall around the country, and that's reflected in school shootings. Many of the attacks in that decade were gang-related. Gang warfare spilled out from the streets into the halls of the schools, but those shootings "were not the type of events that got a lot of attention, except for locally," Fox said.AdvertisementSupported byBy ReutersBELFAST — A 29-year-old Northern Irish journalist was shot dead during rioting in Londonderry overnight, an attack that shocked the region and police said was likely the work of Irish nationalist militants opposed to the 1998 Good Friday peace deal.Rioting hit the Irish nationalist Creggan area of the city in Northern Ireland late on Thursday after a raid by police, who said they were trying to prevent militant attacks this weekend. At least 50 petrol bombs were thrown and two cars set on fire. Journalist Lyra McKee, 29, was shot dead shortly after posting a picture on Twitter of the violence, which she described as "absolute madness." "Unfortunately at 11 o'clock last night a gunman appeared and fired a number of shots toward the police and a young woman, Lyra McKee, 29 years old, was wounded" and later died, Police Service of Northern Ireland Assistant Chief Constable Mark Hamilton told journalists. McKee, who was named Sky News Young Journalist of the Year in 2006, was writing a book on the disappearance of young people during the three decades of sectarian in Northern Ireland that largely ended with the 1998 deal.She had also written about her struggles growing up gay in the British province.The death of McKee, described by her publisher Faber as a rising star of investigative journalism, was condemned by both Irish Catholic nationalist and pro-British Protestant unionist politicians.British Prime Minister Theresa May described the attack as "shocking and truly senseless.""This was an act of hate," Irish Prime Minister Leo Varadkar said in a statement in front of government buildings in Dublin. "This was an attack not just on one citizen, it was an attack on all of us, our nation and our freedoms." Police said they were treating the incident as a terrorist attack and had opened a murder inquiry. The New IRA (Irish Republican Army) group, which has been responsible for several attacks in recent years, was most likely behind the killing, Assistant Chief Constable Hamilton said. Saoradh, a political party with links to dissident militants who still embrace violence to merge Northern Ireland with Ireland, said in a statement it understood McKee was killed accidentally by a "Republican Volunteer."Leona O'Neill, a local journalist at the scene of the shooting, said that after McKee was hit and fell beside a police Land Rover, officers rushed her to Altnagelvin Hospital, where she died.Videos posted on social media showed police vehicles being pelted with what O'Neill said were dozens of petrol bombs, bricks, bottles and fireworks. "NO ONE WANTS TO GO BACK" McKee's death was described as a tragedy by U.S. House of Representatives Speaker Nancy Pelosi, who led a congressional delegation to Londonderry to mark the 21st anniversary of the 1998 peace deal which Washington helped broker. The deal led to the decommissioning of weapons held by the main militant groups, the withdrawal of the British army from Northern Ireland and the creation of a power-sharing government. But the detonation of a large car bomb outside a courthouse in Londonderry in January highlighted the threat still posed by pro-Ireland militants who rejected the Good Friday Agreement.The groups, which are far smaller than those that operated before the peace deal and have very limited public support, have previously carried out attacks during the Easter period. Politicians in Northern Ireland have warned that Britain's plans to leave the European Union could also undermine the peace deal and that any return of restrictive infrastructure along the Irish-Northern Irish border would become targets for militants.AdvertisementSupported byBy The Associated PressCHICAGO — Chicago police say a 64-year-old man with a concealed carry license and a man recently released from prison fatally shot each other in what is believed to be an attempted robbery.Police spokeswoman Officer Michelle Tannehill says Mark Miller was outside a property he owns on the city's South Side when the 33-year-old former inmate pulled a handgun and attempted to rob him on Thursday morning. Miller then pulled out his own handgun.Tannehill says the gunman shot Miller in the abdomen, and Miller returned fire. She says both men were found dead at the scene, along with two firearms.Authorities have not yet identified the gunman. Autopsies for both men are scheduled for Friday.AdvertisementSupported byBy The Associated PressHARTFORD, Conn. — The Latest on a lawsuit alleging Sandy Hook Elementary School officials failed to order a lockdown before 2012 mass shooting (all times local):5:15 p.m.A Connecticut appeals court has heard arguments over whether Sandy Hook Elementary School officials were negligent in failing to order a lockdown before a gunman killed 20 first-graders and six educators in 2012.A lawyer for the parents of two children killed in the massacre told the state Appellate Court on Wednesday that school officials didn't follow protocols and order a lockdown that may have saved lives when they heard the gunman shoot his way through the school's locked entrance.The parents are appealing a lower court ruling that dismissed their lawsuit against the town and its schools.The town's lawyer argued officials weren't certain what they heard was gunfire in the chaotic first seconds and ordering a lockdown was discretionary.It's not clear when the Appellate Court will rule.___6 a.m.A Connecticut appeals court is set to hear arguments in a lawsuit alleging Sandy Hook Elementary School officials failed to order a lockdown that could have saved lives before a gunman killed 20 first-graders and six educators in 2012.The hearing before the state Appellate Court is scheduled for Wednesday afternoon.AdvertisementSupported byTwo officers cornered a man with a gun in a parking lot, who fired at them. The man was fatally shot and one officer was wounded. By James C. McKinley Jr. and Ali WinstonA plainclothes officer was wounded in an exchange of gunfire with an armed man in Upper Manhattan on Thursday afternoon, the police said. The gunman was fatally shot.The shooting occurred at about 4:30 p.m. inside a paid parking lot on Broadway near West 187th Street, in the Washington Heights neighborhood, the police said. The officer, Justin Vartanian, 34, was taken to Mount Sinai St. Luke’s Hospital with a wound under his right arm, the police said. He was expected to survive. The gunman, Luis Leizado, 42, was hit in the chest and died a half-hour later at a nearby hospital, the police said. A black handgun was recovered from him. Early reports that there were two gunmen turned out to be false. The incident began at 4:24 p.m. when a 911 caller reported that someone was firing a gun at the corner of Wadsworth Avenue and 187th Street, the police commissioner, James P. O’Neill, said during a news conference at the Mount Sinai St. Luke’s Hospital. Moments later, two plainclothes officers from the 34th Precinct arrived in an unmarked car and spotted Mr. Leizado with a gun fleeing down 187th Street toward Broadway, Mr. O’Neill said. Officer Vartanian got out of the car and chased the gunman on foot as he ran around the corner and into a parking lot on Broadway. The fleeing man hid behind a car at the back of the lot and fired three rounds, hitting the officer under his right arm. The wounded officer managed to fire back once.“The amount of courage this police officer showed is quite unbelievable,” Mr. O’Neill said. Then, the second officer, who has not been identified, barreled into the parking lot in the unmarked police car, jumped out and started firing from behind the driver’s side door, the commissioner said. He squeezed off three shots at the gunman. One of the gunman’s bullets went through the windshield of the police car where the driver sits. “This was a fast, intense episode,” Mayor Bill de Blasio said. “We saw, from the video we observed, a very, very dangerous situation unfold.”The shootout was filmed by a security camera and by one of the officer’s body cameras, the police said. Ahuva Kaplan, 25, who lives across the street from the scene, said she witnessed the events through her window. She saw a man hide behind a car and draw a gun. “They chased him into the parking lot,” she said. “Then I heard gunshots, about five.”She said many more officers arrived over the next few minutes. “A loud speaker on a police car said, come out! Come out!” Mrs. Kaplan said. “They were trying to get him out and there was more fire. He was behind a car, hiding.”On Thursday evening, dozens of officers combed through the parking lot, sandwiched between two buildings on the east side of Broadway, looking for evidence. Jorge Ozuna, 65, said he was walking nearby when he heard shots ring out. “It came from inside a parking lot,” Mr. Ozuna said. “A lot of police officers came running with guns in their hands.”A few minutes later, he said, the wounded officer was carried away by two other officers. “He seemed alert, conscious,” Mr. Ozuna said. “He was touching his hurt arm.”Father Ambiorix Rodriguez said he was preparing for Mass at the St. Elizabeth Church on Wadsworth Avenue and 187th Street when he began getting messages about the gunshots and the wounded officer.“As soon as I heard I began praying for him,” he said. “We have had some shootings here recently.” AdvertisementSupported byBy The Associated PressWELLINGTON, New Zealand — New Zealand police on Wednesday released a detailed timeline of their response to the March 15 shootings that left 50 dead at two Christchurch mosques, confirming they arrested the suspected shooter 18 minutes after receiving the first emergency call.Commissioner Mike Bush released the following second-by-second timeline, saying the New Zealand public should have as much information as possible about the police response:___1:40 p.m. — A manifesto written by the gunman and detailing his plan for the shootings is received at New Zealand's Parliament.1:41 p.m. — Only 44 seconds after receiving the email, an official of Parliamentary Services phones the Southern Communications Center to alert police. The call lasts 12 minutes. "We now know that while police was talking to Parliamentary Services, the attack at Al Noor Mosque was already underway, having begun 44 seconds prior to Parliamentary Services calling," Bush said.1:43 p.m. — After receiving the first emergency call, police dispatch all available units to Al Noor Mosque.1:46 p.m. — Officers from the police Armed Offenders Squad arrive near the mosque, leave their vehicles and approach the scene. One stops to assist a critically wounded victim. "At this point the alleged offender is leaving the area and his vehicle is obscured from the view of these AOS members by a bus," Bush said. "At this time there is no vehicle description, no information an offender has left the mosque or how many shooters there are."1:51 p.m. — First responders arrive at the mosque.1:52 p.m. — The gunman takes six minutes to drive to Linwood Mosque, where seven people are killed.1:55 p.m. — The gunman leaves Linwood Mosque.1:56 p.m. — A member of the public flags down a police car to advise shots had been fired in Linwood.1:57 p.m. — The gunman's vehicle is seen by police and pursued.1:59 p.m. — The vehicle is stopped and the suspect arrested.___"I reaffirm my previous comments that police staff acted as quickly as humanly possible given the rapidly unfolding nature of the event and the information available to us in that very brief period of time," Bush said.He said while an investigation of the police response is continuing, the information released Wednesday was the best police had at present.A 28-year-old Australian man, Brenton Tarrant, has been charged with 50 counts of murder and 39 counts of attempted murder.AdvertisementSupported byBy ReutersDUBLIN — A year after moving to Londonderry, celebrated young Northern Ireland journalist Lyra McKee wrote about how she looked forward to "better times ahead and saying goodbye to bombs and bullets once and for all".On Thursday night - just three months later - the 29-year-old McKee's final Twitter post showed a police vehicle being pelted by petrol bombs with the caption: "Derry tonight. Absolute madness."She was killed shortly afterwards, shot dead by a gunman firing towards police during a riot that underscored the challenges still faced by Northern Ireland, a British province, 21 years after the Good Friday Agreement largely ended decades of deadly sectarian bloodshed.Police said the gunman was likely a member of the New IRA, a small militant Irish nationalist group opposed to that peace deal. Born in Belfast just a few years before the 1998 accord was struck to end the kind of violence that took her life, McKee was remembered in an outpouring of tributes as an intelligent, talented writer who brought a human touch to difficult subjects. "She was an inspiring thinker and journalist," Irish Deputy Prime Minister Simon Coveney wrote on Twitter.He linked his post to video of a TED talk McKee gave in 2017 encouraging churchgoers and fellow lesbian, gay, bisexual or transgender young people to talk to one another to try and change religious teaching on the subject.In her tweet in January, she described Londonderry as a beautiful city she had fallen in love with while "falling in love with a woman who hails from it".McKee wrote and spoke openly about the struggles of growing up gay in a hostile environment. A 2014 blog post - "A Letter To My 14-Year-Old Self" - received much acclaim and was subsequently turned into a short film.By that stage McKee had already been named Sky News Young Journalist of the Year - an award she won in 2006 - and was named as one of the "30 under 30 in media" by Forbes Magazine ten years later.She wrote for publications both in Northern Ireland and aboard, including the Independent newspaper, the Atlantic and BuzzFeed News.A "Good Friday baby", McKee was a journalist of courage, style and integrity, Seamus Dooley, the head of the National Union of Journalists Ireland said in a statement.In 2018 McKee signed a two-book deal with British publisher Faber and Faber. She was writing a book on the disappearance of young people during the British province's three decades of Protestant-Catholic violence that the 1998 deal largely ended.In a story published by the Mosaic Science website in 2016 that was widely shared on social media on Friday, McKee explored why in Northern Ireland more people took their own lives in the first 16 years after the so-called "Troubles" ended than died during them."We were the Good Friday Agreement generation, destined to never witness the horrors of war but to reap the spoils of peace," she wrote. "The spoils just never seemed to reach us." AdvertisementSupported byBy The Associated PressLONDON — Police in Northern Ireland searched for multiple suspects Friday after the fatal shooting of a journalist during rioting in Londonderry and sought help from the public to get "a killer off the streets" and into custody.The Police Service of Northern Ireland said 29-year-old journalist Lyra McKee was shot and killed, probably by a stray bullet, during overnight rioting in the city's Creggan neighborhood. It said the New IRA dissident group was most likely responsible.Assistant Chief Constable Mark Hamilton said a gunman fired a number of shots at police during the unrest that began Thursday evening."We believe this to be a terrorist act," he said.Police on Friday night released closed-circuit TV footage showing the man suspected of firing the shots that killed McKee.Detective Superintendent Jason Murphy said the footage shows "the gunman at the corner and an individual picking up something from the ground on the same corner. We are releasing this to encourage anyone with information to make contact with us."He said locals know the identity of the gunman and urged them to come forward "to try to help us take a killer off the streets."The killing reminded many of the decades of violence that plagued Northern Ireland before the 1998 Good Friday peace agreement. It was condemned by all the major political parties as well as the prime ministers of Britain and Ireland.Speaking in Dublin, Irish Prime Minister Leo Varadkar said the people of Ireland and Northern Ireland had chosen peace and cooperation on Good Friday 21 years ago and will not be "dragged into the past" by political violence.McKee rose to prominence in 2014 with a moving blog post — "Letter to my 14 year old self" — describing the struggle of growing up gay in Belfast, the capital of Northern Ireland.In the post, she described the shame she felt at 14 as she kept the "secret" of being gay from her family and friends and the love she eventually received when she was finally able to reveal it.She also had recently signed a contract to write two books.Hours before her death, she tweeted a photo of the rioting with the words: "Derry tonight. Absolute madness."Her partner, Sara Canning, told a vigil Friday that McKee's amazing potential had been snuffed out.Canning said the senseless murder "has left me without the love of my life, the woman I was planning to grow old with.""It has left so many friends without their confidante," she added.A murder investigation has been launched but there have been no arrests yet. Police appealed for calm over the long Easter holiday weekend.Hamilton said the force's assessment "is that the New IRA are most likely to be the ones behind this."The New IRA is a small group who reject the 1998 Good Friday agreement that marked the Irish Republican Army's embrace of a political solution to the long-running violence known as "The Troubles" that claimed more than 3,700 lives.The group is also blamed for a Londonderry car bombing that did not cause any injuries in January. It is regarded as the largest of the splinter dissident groups still operating and has been linked to several other killings in the past decade.Deputy Chief Constable Stephen Martin said Friday that police believe more than one person was involved in the shooting."We certainly believe there was more than one person who was involved in this last night. Obviously only one person pulled the trigger but there was more than one person," he said.He said the violence started after police entered the area to search for weapons and that the gunman was aiming at policemen when the rioting intensified."The full and total responsibility for Lyra McKee's death lies with the organization that sent someone out with a gun," he said.There has been an increase in tensions in Northern Ireland in recent months with sporadic violence, much of it focused in Londonderry, also known as Derry.International video coverage from The New York Times.Paul Manafort’s Trail of ScandalsMy Dead Dad’s Porno TapesTen Meter TowerBetween Sound and SilenceCoal Miner to Trump: “Coal Mining Isn’t Coming Back”House Tour | Cary LeibowitzSanctuary City HotlineAdvertisementSupported byBy The Associated PressCHICAGO — A Chicago man has been found guilty of first-degree murder in the 2012 death of a 7-year-old girl who was shot outside her home.Jerrell Dorsey was convicted Thursday by a Cook County jury. The 33-year-old Dorsey was one of two gunmen who opened fire on rival gang members on a West Side street in June 2012, striking Heaven Sutton. The girl was shot near a homemade snack stand where she would sell candy.The man believed to have been the second gunman hasn't been charged in the shooting. He is awaiting trial for an unrelated attempted murder charge.AdvertisementSupported byBy The Associated PressHARTFORD, Conn. — Sandy Hook Elementary School officials failed to follow mandated security protocol and order a lockdown that may have saved lives immediately after the gunman shot his way through the locked entrance, a lawyer for the parents of two children killed in the massacre told a Connecticut appeals court on Wednesday.Attorney Devin Janosov tried to convince three judges on the state Appellate Court that they should overturn a lower court ruling that dismissed the parents' wrongful death lawsuit against the town of Newtown and its schools. It's not clear when the judges will issue their decision.A lawyer for the town, Charles DeLuca, argued that ordering a lockdown was discretionary and there was confusion among officials about what the noises were when gunman Adam Lanza was shooting his way through the school's locked glass entrance in the chaotic first moments of the attack.Principal Dawn Hochsprung and school psychologist Mary Sherlach rushed into a hallway to see what was happening and were killed. A third staff member was injured. Lanza went on to kill 20 first-graders and four other educators in two classrooms before fatally shooting himself on Dec. 14, 2012.Janosov argued Hochsprung or other officials should have ordered a "code blue" lockdown over the intercom before going into the hallway, under school security protocol in place at the time. He said a lockdown would have alerted teachers to lock their classroom doors — possibly saving lives.DeLuca disagreed."We'll never know what Dawn Hochsprung thought it was," he said of the first gunshots. "You can't call a code blue unless you know there's a reason to do so."Another lawyer for the parents, Donald Papcsy, said after the court hearing that the shooting sounds made by an AR-15-type rifle like the one Lanza used are unmistakable.The parents of Jesse Lewis and Noah Pozner are hoping their lawsuit prompts school officials to follow security procedures during future emergencies. They also are seeking damages. Earlier in the case, they offered to settle the lawsuit for $11 million.Neil Heslin, Jesse's father, attended the court arguments. He said after the hearing that while he blamed Lanza for the killings, the school system should be held accountable for lapses in security protocol."If a code blue was called ... it would have made it possible for all the teachers to realize to lock their doors," he said.The arguments came on the same day that a Florida teenager who authorities say was obsessed with the Columbine school shooting and may have been planning an attack in Colorado was found dead in an apparent suicide after a nearly 24-hour search. That incident came just ahead of the 20th anniversary of the 1999 Columbine massacre.Lanza, the Sandy Hook shooter, killed his mother at their Newtown home before going to the school, where he killed himself as police arrived. The motive remains unclear. Connecticut's child advocate said Lanza's severe and deteriorating mental health problems, his preoccupation with violence and access to his mother's legal weapons "proved a recipe for mass murder."Last year, Connecticut Superior Court Judge Robin Wilson dismissed the lawsuit over the Sandy Hook security protocols, citing government immunity.AdvertisementSupported byBy The Associated PressTOKYO — Cartoonist Monkey Punch, best known as the creator of the Japanese megahit comic series Lupin III, has died at age of 81.His office, MP Pictures, said Wednesday that Monkey Punch, whose real name is Kazuhiko Kato, died of pneumonia on April 11.The story of master thief Lupin's adventures with his gang — gunman Daisuke Jigen, sword master Goemon Ishikawa and sexy beauty Fujiko Mine, as well as a detective, Zenigata — started in 1967.The cartoon also was adapted for TV animation and movies, some directed by renowned animators including Hayao Miyazaki and Isao Takahata.Kato himself directed the 1996 animated film "Lupin III: Dead or Alive." Miyazaki, who directed a 1971 Lupin animation for TV, made his feature-length film debut with "Lupin III: The Castle of Cagliostro" in 1997.The hard-boiled, yet comical story with a bit of sexy content has quickly won adult comic fans and became a longtime best-seller. Kato's intended readership was adults, and he reportedly has told younger fans to watch Lupin TV animation and read comic books when they become high school students.The main character in his trademark red jacket is a grandson of famous Arsene Lupin in a Maurice Leblanc detective story.The son of a fisherman in Hokkaido, in northern Japan, Kato debuted as a professional cartoonist in 1965 while working part time at a rental bookstore, and started using his penname Monkey Punch soon after the Lupin series started in the Weekly Manga Action magazine.AdvertisementSupported byBy The Associated PressPARKLAND, Fla. — Alex Rozenblat can still hear the cries of a wounded boy calling for help as she hid from the gunfire that killed 17 people at Marjory Stoneman Douglas High School last year.Talking to therapists at the school in Parkland, Florida, didn't help. Each session had a different counselor, and she found herself rehashing traumas she had already expressed. She would rather turn to her friends, who understand what she went through."There is slight pressure to get better as quickly as you can, and since it's been a year, everyone thinks that you are better," the 16-year-old said.The mental health resources after a school shooting range from therapy dogs and grief counselors at school to support groups, art therapy and in-home counseling. But there is no blueprint for dealing with the trauma because each tragedy, survivor and community is different. Many survivors don't get counseling right away — sometimes waiting years — making it difficult to understand the full impact.The struggle is getting them to seek help in the first place. In the two decades since the Columbine High School massacre, a network of survivors has emerged, reaching out to the newest victims to offer support that many say they prefer to traditional therapy.As the anguish festers, the danger grows, illustrated by the recent suicides of two Marjory Stoneman Douglas survivors and a father whose young child died in the shooting at Sandy Hook Elementary in Newtown, Connecticut."It changes the community," said psychologist Robin Gurwitch, a trauma specialist at Duke University Medical Center.Grief, troubling memories and emotions can bubble up any time for survivors and even community members who didn't see the bullets fly, she said. They can hit on anniversaries of the tragedy, birthdays of victims, graduations and new mass shootings, Gurwitch said. The trauma can even rush back with a song, favorite meal, video game or fire alarms."There's never a time limit. We don't get 'over it.' We hope we learn to get through it and cope," Gurwitch said.Survivors of the Columbine attack, which killed 12 Colorado students and a teacher on April 20, 1999, started The Rebels Project, which is part of a loose nationwide network of survivors of mass attacks.The groups reach out after each shooting. They held a packed meeting for survivors and parents in Parkland this month, describing how they have learned to cope over the years through therapy, exercise and hobbies and assuring the Florida community that their pain is normal."We are one family," said meeting organizer Mike Dempsey, a survivor of 9/11 and the 2017 Las Vegas mass shooting. "What helped me after 9/11 was that Oklahoma City bombing survivors drove all the way up to New York to help us. They weren't mental health professionals, but they were able to offer comfort and outreach and just to let us know: 'We've been through this.'"Rozenblat refuses to talk about the Parkland shooting. If she feels anxious during the school day, she holes up in a TV production classroom because there are no windows for a gunman to shoot through.Her mother worries. Alex had been an honors student but now struggles with schoolwork. She's also started hanging around a new group of friends, said her mother, Lissette Rozenblat.She schedules therapy appointments, but Alex often makes excuses to postpone or cancel. The family bought a therapy dog and is trying to get Alex into art therapy."The common theme among parents ... almost all of our kids don't want to talk about the incident," Lissette Rozenblat said.Some students who were not physically wounded minimize their trauma and don't seek help because they try to convince themselves they were lucky, said Columbine survivor Heather Martin, who co-founded The Rebel Project."You can't measure trauma in that way," Martin said. Still, she said people need to seek help when they feel ready, not when others think they should.Victims often receive compensation for longer-term care, but many in recovering communities, especially those may have seen horror but avoided injury, say there's still not enough help to go around.Stoneman Douglas math teacher Kimberly Krawczyk said no typical school counselor — no matter how well-intentioned or trained — can fully help students or staff who survived a mass shooting."These kids have seen as much as soldiers who have been in battle. They survived gunfire. They walked over bodies. They had classmates who were right next to them who got shot," Krawczyk said.Teachers also are dealing with their own trauma and insecurities, she said."We don't all have our marbles back in our bags yet, but we are in charge of those children. That gravity is a lot of responsibility, and for some teachers, it is too emotionally overwhelming," Krawczyk said.Managing long-term mental health effects poses unique challenges in each town touched by tragedy, but experts agree that isolation is a red flag and keeping victims connected to family, friends and community is critical.Dr. April Foreman, a psychologist on the board of the American Association of Suicidology, called treating mass shootings "a profound lifetime health care issue" but stressed that a majority of those who have suicidal thoughts recover.Marjory Stoneman sophomore Julia Brighton said she's attempted suicide four times in the year since she watched the gunman shoot through the window of her English class, killing three friends. Despite an outpouring of community support and a bevy of mental health services, Brighton said she still felt ashamed to seek help.After months of therapy, she said she realized "there's nothing to be afraid of because it made me a better person in the long run."AdvertisementSupported byBy ReutersSTRASBROUG — The European parliament voted on Wednesday to fine firms like Facebook, Google and Twitter up to 4 percent of their turnover if they persistently fail to remove extremist content within one hour of being asked to do so by authorities.The measures have been brought into sharper focus since the live streaming on one of Facebook's platforms of a lone gunman killing 50 people at two New Zealand mosques in March.The parliament voted 308 to 204 with 70 abstentions to back the proposal to tackle the misuse of internet hosting services for "terrorist purposes" ."Companies that systematically and persistently fail to abide by the law may be sanctioned with up to 4 percent of their global turnover," it said.A new European Parliament, to be elected on May 23-26, will finalize the text of the law in negotiations with the European Commission and representatives of EU governments, a process likely to take many months."There is clearly a problem with terrorist material circulating unchecked on the internet for too long," said Daniel Dalton, the parliament's rapporteur for the proposal."This propaganda can be linked to actual terrorist incidents and national authorities must be able to act decisively. Any new legislation must be practical and proportionate if we are to safeguard free speech," he said."It ...absolutely cannot lead to a general monitoring of content by the back door."EU officials moved to regulate because they believe internet companies are not doing enough under voluntary measures, even though the first hour is the most vital to stemming the viral spread of online content. Facebook said it removed 1.5 million videos containing footage of the New Zealand attack in the first 24 hours after the shootings.Worries the new rules are lacking and could be misused have been expressed by three U.N. special rapporteurs for human rights and by the EU's own rights watchdog.Companies rely on a mix of automated tools and human moderators to spot and delete extremist content. However, when illegal content is taken down from one platform, it often crops up on another, straining authorities' ability to police the web.In response to industry concerns that smaller platforms do not have the same resources to comply as speedily with tougher EU rules, lawmakers said authorities should take into account the size and revenue of companies concerned.Draft measures call on the bloc's national governments to put in place the tools to identify extremist content and an appeals procedure. The one-hour rule would apply from the point of notification by national authorities.AdvertisementSupported byBy ReutersPARKER, Colo. — Almost two decades separate the traumatic experiences of Michelle Wheeler and Chad Williams, who both survived mass shootings. But as they shared their stories one evening last July, 20 years seemed to evaporate in the crisp Colorado air.The similarities were too many to count.The same gripping fear. The loss and devastation that followed. The lasting trauma and overwhelming grief. So many funerals and memorial services.Michelle Wheeler, 38, escaped the April 20, 1999, Columbine High School massacre in Littleton, Colorado, when two students killed 12 students and a teacher, thrusting the horror of school shootings into the American consciousness.Chad Williams, 19, was a student at Marjory Stoneman Douglas High School in Parkland, Florida, when a former student killed 17 students and staff members, including one of Williams’ best friends, on Feb. 14, 2018.The conversation with Wheeler made him feel less alone, Williams said."It felt like my world fell apart last year,” he said. “And just hearing other people's stories and how they came through and bettered themselves after helped make me feel a little bit better about myself.”There have been dozens of mass shootings in the United States since Columbine. (For a graphic on major U.S. mass shootings, see: https://tmsnrt.rs/2IaGL5h)In the United States from 2000 to 2017 there were 250 active-shooter incidents, resulting in 799 deaths and more than 1,400 people wounded, according to the FBI. But the number of people left to deal with the lasting effects of gun violence is far more difficult to track. The Rebels Project, a nonpartisan, nonprofit organization established in 2012, seeks to help survivors and their families learn how to live with the deep-rooted trauma wrought by their experiences. The group's mission has gained a renewed sense of urgency in the wake of three apparent suicides: the father of a child killed in the 2012 Sandy Hook Elementary School massacre in Newtown, Connecticut, and two teenagers from Marjory Stoneman Douglas who died in March.Williams and Wheeler met over the summer during the group’s annual gathering.For one weekend a year, survivors from across the United States meet to learn techniques that help them cope with trauma.About 50 people gathered in July to share and learn from each other's experiences and take part in activities that include tai chi and yoga classes.Between these gatherings, participants can connect through the project's private Facebook group and attend monthly support meetings in Colorado. Project volunteers sometimes visit affected communities to share what they have learned through the years and offer peer-to-peer guidance.Columbine survivor Heather Martin, 37, started The Rebels Project just days after another mass shooting shook her Colorado community.Martin was driving home from work on July 20, 2012, when screaming sirens sent her heart and mind racing."It's OK," she reasoned with herself. "Things are OK. Just drive home. There was probably an accident."The next morning, she woke to the news that a gunman had killed a dozen people inside a movie theater in Aurora, Colorado. Though Martin tried to avoid learning the details of the massacre, she became overwhelmed by old feelings of grief, anxiety and, above all, helplessness.A few days later, she received a text from a fellow Columbine survivor."What do you think about starting a support group for people who have been through mass shootings?" Jennifer Hammer wrote.Martin did not hesitate. "I’m in," she replied.The Rebels Project, named after the Columbine High School mascot, held its first meeting within days.Dozens of people showed up wanting to help those affected by the Aurora shooting. Many were Columbine survivors. During the meeting, several broke down crying as they told their own stories."It became clear that even 13 years after Columbine we still needed help," Martin said.Five years ago, there were fewer than 20 survivor communities involved in the organization. As of early April, survivors of 60 mass traumas had joined.To support its growing network, The Rebels Project hosts a public silent auction of donated items and services once a year and has received small grants from local businesses.But the money quickly runs out.Organizers hope to broaden the project's reach and bolster its impact by starting local support systems in various U.S. states and creating a network of mental-health professionals who specialize in mass trauma.But it has proven especially difficult for the group to get state, federal and nonprofit health grants, Martin said. It has been challenging to prove that peer support unsupervised by a mental health professional falls under mental health needs, "though there is lots of research surrounding it," she said.About 1,000 survivors have found their way to The Rebels Project.It was a 3 a.m. Google search that led Sherrie Lawson to the group.Lawson, 45, fled her office as a gunman opened fire at the Washington Navy Yard in the nation's capital on Sept. 16, 2013.For months after, she was dogged by nightmares and insomnia, and struggled to find support."Even a lot of my friends were like, 'It’s been a few months, you should be OK now.'"But she was not.She struggled to carry out basic chores like going to the grocery store. She grew anxious in the aisles, unable to see the door over the tall rows of food.The Rebels Project taught her that it was normal to continue to struggle for months, even years, after what she had gone through.People affected by events like mass shootings can experience trauma, even if they did not witness the violence firsthand, according to Erika Felix, an associate professor of psychology at the University of California, Santa Barbara, who has studied shooting survivors.“People need to recognize that there’s multiple levels of people affected. It’s not just the people who directly saw something or were directly injured or lost someone that they loved,” Felix said. “It ripples through a community, it shatters a lot of people’s belief about the safety of your community, of the world.”In early April, nearly 20 years to the day of the Columbine massacre, Martin and two other members from The Rebels Project sat in a park in Parkland with high school students from Stoneman Douglas.Martin told Ava Steil, 16, and Brianna Jesionowski, 16, that every April she finds herself becoming irritable, weepy, short-tempered. The process of healing is “never really over,” Martin told the girls, who were interviewing The Rebels Project members for the high school newspaper."I was barricaded in a room for three hours, and it was geographically close to the library where most of the gunfire happened," Martin recalled. "We heard everything that happened, but I didn’t see any of it happen. So, for years, I was like ... ‘I should be fine.’ And that’s not the case,” she said. "Trauma isn’t a competition. You don’t need to compare it to anyone else's. It's your own.”AdvertisementSupported byBy The Associated PressKazuhiko Kato, the Japanese cartoonist known to his fans as Monkey Punch who created Lupin III, a manga series that has found fans worldwide and inspired television and film adaptations, died on April 11. He was 81.His office, MP Pictures, said the cause was pneumonia but did not say where he died.Created by Mr. Kato in 1967, Lupin III (it has also been rendered different ways, including Lupin the Third and Lupin 3rd) follows the adventures of Arséne Lupin III, a daring thief who travels the world stealing treasures. Mr. Kato conceived the character as a grandson of Arséne Lupin, the gentleman larcenist and master of disguise created by the French novelist Maurice Leblanc.Lupin often commits his capers with help from a sharp-eyed gunman, Daisuke Jigen; a master swordsman, Goemon Ishikawa XIII; and a femme fatale, Fujiko Mine. The gang regularly escapes the clutches of Inspector Koichi Zenigata, an Interpol officer obsessed with capturing Lupin.“I took my inspiration for the relationship from Tom and Jerry,” Mr. Kato told The Daily Yomiuri in 2007, referring to the American cat and mouse cartoon characters. “The mouse, Lupin, is cleverer than Zenigata, who is left gnashing his teeth after failing to get his man yet again.”The comic series, which has been translated into English and other languages, has appeared in installments in magazines and been collected in bound volumes.It was first adapted as an animated television show in 1971. Some episodes were directed by Hayao Miyazaki and Isao Takahata, who went on to international fame as animators and founders of Studio Ghibli. Mr. Miyazaki’s feature-length film debut was the Lupin movie “The Castle of Cagliostro” (1979).The cartoon has since been adapted many times for television and film, including two live-action movies, the latest in 2014. Mr. Kato directed the 1996 film “Lupin the 3rd: Dead or Alive.”The animated versions of Lupin differed from Mr. Kato’s original creation, which was more violent and aimed at older readers. He told The Daily Yomiuri in 2011 that he had accepted the changes to his characters for animation because if his manga “hadn’t been made into anime, it wouldn’t have enjoyed such long-term support.”“I have to be practical about it,” he continued. “Lupin III is no longer ‘mine’ when it’s being made into anime. Many producers and animators have played with the work. This is all right with me; there are many Lupin IIIs.’ ”Mr. Kato, a son of a fisherman, was born in 1937 in the small town of Hamanaka on the island of Hokkaido, in northern Japan. After graduating from high school he moved to Tokyo, where he attended an electronics vocational school and worked part time at a rental bookstore while developing his cartoons.His character Lupin first appeared in the magazine Weekly Manga Action in 1967. Mr. Kato said he started using the pseudonym Monkey Punch after an editor compared his characters’ faces to those of monkeys.Mr. Kato was an early adopter and proponent of digital animation, and he studied animation in multimedia formats at a technical graduate school in Tokyo in the 2000s. He also taught animation at Otemae University in Nishinomiya, in western Japan.AdvertisementSupported byBy ReutersARVADA, Colo. — Each morning for the last two decades, Frank DeAngelis has recited aloud the names of the 13 people killed at Columbine High School, where he served as principal during the 1999 massacre that marked a modern era of mass school shootings."When I wake up in bed each morning, that's the first thing I do is recite the names. Then I go into my office and pray," DeAngelis, 64, told Reuters in an interview. “They have been with me since that day and they’ll continue to be with me for the rest of my life in the Columbine community.”On April 20, 1999, two heavily armed Columbine students stormed the school in suburban Denver, killing 12 classmates and a teacher before turning their guns on themselves and committing suicide. At the time, it was the deadliest school shooting in U.S. history.Saturday marks the 20th anniversary of the Columbine tragedy, and DeAngelis, who retired as principal five years ago, will speak at some of the solemn events celebrating the victims whose lives were cut short.For DeAngelis, the details of that day are never forgotten. As he shepherded about 20 students to safety down a corridor when the shooting erupted, DeAngelis came face-to-face with one of the shooters, who fired at him but missed."I saw a gunman coming towards me and everything was in slow motion,” he said. “But I so vividly remember the sounds of the gunshots breaking the glass behind me."SUICIDES AND THERAPYIn the days and weeks following the massacre, DeAngelis became the face of Columbine, giving countless interviews recounting the ghastly shooting and its heartbreaking aftermath.But some of the hardest moments were still to come. DeAngelis led students, teachers and parents through the dark days following the shooting, and through other gut-wrenching events that followed months and years later.The mother of a girl left paralyzed from the shooting committed public suicide six months after the massacre. A little more than a year after the rampage, a Columbine student who witnessed murdered teacher Dave Sanders get shot in the opening salvo of gunfire inside the school hanged himself.“I just joined a club in which no one wants to be a member,” DeAngelis said. “And I realized that my life had changed forever."He sought professional help to deal with his feelings of grief, sorrow and guilt, and relied on his Catholic faith to give him strength to share his experiences with other schools and communities that have endured mass shootings, from Virginia Tech and Sandy Hook to the 2018 Marjory Stoneman Douglas High School massacre in Parkland, Florida.DeAngelis, who had risen from teacher and athletics coach to principal before retiring after 35 years at Columbine, recently published a book, “They Call Me 'Mr. De': The Story of Columbine’s Heart, Resilience, and Recovery,” with all the proceeds going to various charities.The book chronicles DeAngelis' journey through therapy, and healing from trauma, which he hopes will “give some support” to those who have experienced similar tragedies.AdvertisementSupported byBy ReutersARVADA, Colo. — Each morning for the last two decades, Frank DeAngelis has recited aloud the names of the 13 people killed at Columbine High School, where he served as principal during the 1999 massacre that marked a modern era of mass school shootings."When I wake up in bed each morning, that's the first thing I do is recite the names. Then I go into my office and pray," DeAngelis, 64, told Reuters in an interview. “They have been with me since that day and they’ll continue to be with me for the rest of my life in the Columbine community.”On April 20, 1999, two heavily armed Columbine students stormed the school in suburban Denver, killing 12 classmates and a teacher before turning their guns on themselves and committing suicide. At the time, it was the deadliest school shooting in U.S. history.Saturday marks the 20th anniversary of the Columbine tragedy, and DeAngelis, who retired as principal five years ago, will speak at some of the solemn events celebrating the victims whose lives were cut short.For DeAngelis, the details of that day are never forgotten. As he shepherded about 20 students to safety down a corridor when the shooting erupted, DeAngelis came face-to-face with one of the shooters, who fired at him but missed."I saw a gunman coming towards me and everything was in slow motion,” he said. “But I so vividly remember the sounds of the gunshots breaking the glass behind me."SUICIDES AND THERAPYIn the days and weeks following the massacre, DeAngelis became the face of Columbine, giving countless interviews recounting the ghastly shooting and its heartbreaking aftermath.But some of the hardest moments were still to come. DeAngelis led students, teachers and parents through the dark days following the shooting, and through other gut-wrenching events that followed months and years later.The mother of a girl left paralysed from the shooting committed public suicide six months after the massacre. A little more than a year after the rampage, a Columbine student who witnessed murdered teacher Dave Sanders get shot in the opening salvo of gunfire inside the school hanged himself.“I just joined a club in which no one wants to be a member,” DeAngelis said. “And I realized that my life had changed forever."He sought professional help to deal with his feelings of grief, sorrow and guilt, and relied on his Catholic faith to give him strength to share his experiences with other schools and communities that have endured mass shootings, from Virginia Tech and Sandy Hook to the 2018 Marjory Stoneman Douglas High School massacre in Parkland, Florida.DeAngelis, who had risen from teacher and athletics coach to principal before retiring after 35 years at Columbine, recently published a book, “They Call Me 'Mr. De': The Story of Columbine’s Heart, Resilience, and Recovery,” with all the proceeds going to various charities.The book chronicles DeAngelis' journey through therapy, and healing from trauma, which he hopes will “give some support” to those who have experienced similar tragedies.AdvertisementSupported byBy The Associated PressThe deadly attack at Columbine High School in 1999 seemed to usher in a new era of school shootings.Two decades later, polls consistently capture growing fears among American parents that their children face imminent danger whenever they go to school. Those fears have only intensified since attacks at an elementary school in 2012 in Newtown, Connecticut, and last year at a high school in Parkland, Florida.In the aftermath of the Parkland shooting, some research suggests that some type of school gun violence happens almost daily in the United States. Other studies indicate that deaths from school violence have actually declined since 1991. Answers to some key questions about school attacks over the last several decades:WHAT ARE AMERICANS' PERCEPTIONS OF SCHOOL SHOOTINGS?A March survey by The Associated Press-NORC Center for Public Affairs Research found that a majority of Americans believe schools and colleges, along with places of worship, have become less safe compared with 20 years ago.Wide shares of Americans also believe parents, the internet and news coverage of similar attacks are at least partly to blame for school shootings.About 2 in 10 parents are not at all confident or not very confident in their child's safety while at school. About a third of parents are very confident or extremely confident, according to the poll. But fewer Americans put blame for shootings on schools themselves.WHAT DO THE DATA SHOW?According to data compiled by Northeastern University criminologist James Alan Fox, who has been researching gun violence for decades, school shootings were more frequent in the 1990s than today. From 1991 until the Columbine shooting, an average of 19 fatal school shootings happened each year, with about 22 people killed.In contrast, over the past eight years, an average of about six fatal school shootings happened each year, with about 14 killed."First of all, schools are safe, and if you consider the over 50 million schoolchildren and the over 100,000 schools that we have, the risk of a student or a faculty member being killed by gunfire, it's extremely low," Fox told AP. "The one-homicide-is-too-many mantra is quite true. Yet when you do the calculations, the probability is very small."Other data, such as that compiled by Everytown for Gun Safety, captures a broader spectrum of gun-related violence, including non-fatal shootings and drive-by shootings in which the perpetrators do not have a direct connection to the school. That research paints a different picture that suggests gun violence — from random gunfire to suicides — is a frequent occurrence.Everytown, which began tracking school shootings after Newtown, notes that attacks such as those at Sandy Hook Elementary School and Marjory Stoneman Douglas High School are not commonplace and represent less than 1 percent of the school gun-violence incidents.WHAT DRIVES THE PERCEPTION THAT SCHOOL SHOOTINGS ARE ON THE RISE?Fox chalks much of it up to the attention such crimes receive in the news. A generation ago, there were many fewer cable TV news channels and websites covering the events 24 hours a day.One school shooting he cites happened in 1989, when a gunman killed five elementary school students and wounded 32. The shooting in Stockton, California, is barely remembered.Columbine was among the mass shootings in recent decades that sparked the "No Notoriety" movement, an appeal by both gun-control and gun-rights activists to avoid repeated reporting of the names and biographic details of gunmen. They hope denying attention to the attackers prevents inspiring a new crop of future shooters.HOW HAVE SHOOTINGS EVOLVED?The early 1990s were plagued by a high homicide rate overall around the country, and that's reflected in school shootings. Many of the attacks in that decade were gang-related. Gang warfare spilled out from the streets into the halls of the schools, but those shootings "were not the type of events that got a lot of attention, except for locally," Fox said.AdvertisementSupported byBy The Associated PressLITTLETON, Colo. — On April 20, 1999, two teenage boys dressed in black trench coats went on a killing rampage at Columbine High School in suburban Denver. They shot and killed 12 classmates and a teacher and wounded two dozen others before taking their own lives.Twenty years later, The Associated Press is republishing this story about the attack, the product of reporting from more than a dozen AP journalists who conducted interviews in the hours after it happened. The article first appeared on April 22, 1999.___A moment of surprise, then hours of terrorBy TED ANTHONYAP National WriterLITTLETON, Colo. — Her favorite lunchtime meal was ready — "my only meal," jokes Sarah DeBoer. So, nachos in hand, she headed toward the commons area of the Columbine High School cafeteria.It was a sunny Tuesday morning, maybe 60 degrees, only 17 school days before graduation, and a spring mentality was afoot — the kind that says summer is on the horizon.Outside, two disaffected young men knew something their classmates didn't. Dylan Klebold and Eric Harris had endgame in mind.Ms. DeBoer, who knew the pair in passing, had talked to them Friday. True, they liked to bluster about guns and vengeance and Adolf Hitler. But they seemed — for them, at least — fine.Upstairs in the school library, four dozen students were studying their way through the lunch period.Down the hall, Dave Sanders, a popular instructor and coach, was teaching a science class. Nearby, Stephanie Williams, 16, a junior, was in the choir room singing.Then, at about 11:15 a.m., a sound from outside: pop-pop-pop-BANG.In the cafeteria, they thought it was a lunchtime prank. Whatever it was, it was getting closer.Sarah DeBoer, a 16-year-old sophomore, hit the floor with her lunch companions. As realization washed over her, she uttered one thing. Whether it was aloud or just to herself, she doesn't quite remember."I think that I'm going to die."___In moments of chaos and hours of confusion, memories can cloud. But, through myriad interviews and briefings, an intelligible if still imprecise portrait emerges of what unfolded behind a suburban school's pale brown walls.Just after lunch period begins, two young men in black trench coats open fire in the parking lot. Senior Wade Frank, 18, outside in the parking lot next to a picnic area, hears popping sounds and sees a girl lying against a curb, shot in the leg. As he watches, another youth is shot in the back and falls forward.Then one gunman throws a bomb into the parking lot and heads inside."He was just casually walking. He wasn't in any hurry," says Frank.Sophomore Denny Rowe, 15, is outside having lunch with friends. "These guys opened fire on everything that looked human," says Rowe. Bullets are bouncing everywhere."One boy was running and suddenly his ankle just puffed up in blood," says sophomore Don Arnold, 16. "A girl was running and her head popped open."As the gunmen walk into the school, two students lie dead outside. Still shooting, the two walk to the cafeteria, where food server Karen Nielsen hears someone yell, "Get down!"Klebold, 17, and Harris, 18, are heavily armed — an assault rifle, sawed-off shotguns, handguns. In the cafeteria, one removes his trench coat to reveal home-made grenades. He tosses a pipe bomb.Gunshots echo. Students fall. One gets up to run and others follow.Word spreads: The "Trenchcoat Mafia" has gone nuts. Many of the 900 students in the building duck into closets and bathrooms, under tables and chairs. A couple call 911 with cellular phones. Dozens flee the building and hide in brush around the school.Senior Nick Foss, 18, and a friend push two teachers, a cook and another woman into a bathroom. "I heard people praying for their husbands and their children," says Foss. The attackers bang on doors, yelling: "We know you're in there."Casey Brackley, 15, is in the gym when an administrator herds kids into the equipment room."I hit my knees and prayed," Ms. Brackley says. They stay for 15 minutes before the administrator directs them outside.Neil Gardner, the Jefferson County sheriff's deputy assigned to the school full-time, hears shots and spots one of the gunmen in a first-floor hallway. He radios for backup and returns fire as bullets ricochet off lockers. Within minutes, seven officers arrive and begin pulling students, including a few shooting victims, from the building.In the choir room, above the commons, Stephanie Williams and her classmates hear the sounds.Someone comes to the door and, with a thumb-forefinger gesture, gives them a warning: gun.Her teacher tells everyone to sit. But in moments, the school's two-level auditorium next door seems a safer place, so some go; then, after about 10 minutes, they run into the main hall."The group I was in headed straight for the door. He was shooting at us," Stephanie says. "All we knew was to run."As they flee, a door behind them explodes in gunfire.Sarah DeBoer, separated from her friend who had run into the weight room, lies on the cafeteria floor until she hears a car explode outside. Then she runs into the auditorium and lies down between seats.There she stays for some time. Fellow students — 15, maybe 20 — cry softly. Teachers warn them to be silent. In the distance, they hear sharp reports and dull explosions. Finally, a janitor enters and tells them: Go!They run, and gunfire follows."I turned, and I saw Dylan was the one who turned and shot at me," Sarah says. "He didn't know it was me; we were just running out of the auditorium."The gunmen head upstairs toward the library.___"All jocks stand up! We're going to kill every one of you," one gunman yells in the library.Student Aaron Cohn, a ballplayer, is spared because a girl leaps onto his back while he lies on the floor, covering the baseball slogan on his shirt."They were laughing after they shot," Cohn says. "It was like they were having the time of their life."Some students are slain at their desks, one with pencil still in hand. The gunmen play "peek-a-boo" with others, finding them cowering under desks and opening fire. Isaiah Shoels, who is black and has tangled with the gunmen before, is one of those to fall.Says one assailant: "Oh, my God. Look at this black kid's brain. Awesome, man!"Some kids play dead. By the time it is over, 12 aren't playing.Klebold and Harris leave behind shattered windows, bloody floors and a quiet unlike any the library has ever heard. Elsewhere upstairs, Sanders, the teacher, has been shot twice in the chest but manages to get students down a hallway away from danger. He stumbles into a science room, bleeding and coughing blood.Outside, the first SWAT team is on the scene 20 minutes after the first 911 calls, joining the sheriff's deputies. It finds several explosive devices around the school and treads cautiously."We had initial people there right away, but we couldn't get in," Jefferson County Sheriff John Stone says. "We were way outgunned."About 45 minutes after the shooting begins, at noon, ambulances take the first wounded students — the ones who managed to run outside — to hospitals. Bomb teams, firetrucks, more SWAT units and paramedics arrive.Nick Foss and other students manage to crawl into a space between the ceiling and acoustic tiles. Foss falls through a tile, crashing onto the floor of the teacher's lounge. He runs.Kammi Vest, 18, hides in the choir-room closet with up to 60 other students. Others try to crawl through heating vents to safety.In the science room, Dave Sanders is dying. Students cover the 47-year-old teacher with their shirts and a blanket and keep him talking. But his pulse slows, and he grows cold.Shots are heard until almost 12:30. About that time, in the library, Dylan Klebold and Eric Harris turn their guns on themselves, though no one will be sure of this for hours.As 12:30 passes, after no shots echo for several minutes, SWAT teams begin sweeping the building room by room. It is, quite literally, a minefield: Dropped backpacks are everywhere, each a potential bomb. In the coming days, bombs will turn up in various shapes and sizes. They include two 35-pound propane bombs hidden in the school's kitchen.At about 2:30, SWAT teams begin freeing those in hiding. In small groups, hands behind their heads, they run from the school to a holding area. They are frisked, questioned, offered medical care and bused to Leawood Elementary School to be reunited with parents.By now, the world is seeing it all on TV. Escaped students cling to each other. Tears flow freely for some; for others, it will take time. Even the tough guys, the ones with the backward baseball caps and the baggy camo pants, cry.At 4:30, with the gunmen's bodies found, authorities declare the school under control. In goes Dr. Chris Colwell, summoned for a medical synopsis. In the sun-dappled, silent library is the worst sight he has ever seen."You walk in there with that hope that there might be somebody who's still alive and still salvageable," Colwell says. "It didn't take long to see that wasn't the case."He pronounces them all dead — 10 students and two alienated schoolmates who let their anger consume them.The bodies will stay there for an entire day, until the known bombs are cleared.___By the following afternoon, nearby Clement Park has become a place of mourning. Students and teachers and gawkers, they come to commiserate, to speak of faith and perseverance, to see the spectacle and talk to the press.Among the pilgrims: Sarah DeBoer, wearing her Columbine football jersey, and Stephanie Williams, accompanied by a friend to comfort her. They stand together, yards from the scene of their lives' greatest terror, and they try to process the scenes running through their mind.AdvertisementSupported bylensColombia’s bloody conflict left Andres Cardona an orphan. After years of covering how political violence devastated others, he now looks at how it changed his life forever.Photographs by Andrés CardonaText by David GonzalezAndrés Cardona remembers the scenes in his family photo albums, little rectangles of memories as faded as the images themselves: birthdays, baptisms, weddings, Halloween and Christmas gatherings. Over time, these everyday moments that once filled his family’s life in Colombia went from mundane to morbid.“From one moment to the next, I started seeing dead people, cadavers,” Mr. Cardona said. “My father’s burial, the murder of a cousin, photos of people who had been murdered during the armed conflict.”As a photographer, Mr. Cardona, 30, was used to documenting Colombia’s bloody history as a decades-old civil war inflicted on strangers. But like so many of his countrymen, members of his family were killed after accusations that they were rebel supporters. His great-grandfather, father, mother, uncle and other family members — mostly farmers who advocated land reform and labor rights — were sentenced to summary executions at the hands of the military. Over the last three years, Mr. Cardona has confronted his family’s history, drawing upon portraits, family pictures and re-creations of murder scenes to bridge the past to the present with the hope of making sense of — and accepting — all that happened. “It is so easy to document another person’s pain with a camera,” he said. “But when you document yourself, that’s where I began to feel that I also lived through this and hid it. It was either I do this story or let it be forgotten. I cannot allow that. I told myself it was time, even if it hurts. But I must do it.”By the early 1950s, the civil war that started in 1945 between conservatives and liberals had claimed his great-grandfather’s life, Mr. Cardona said. He recalled how his grandmother Maria Vargas told him that she was unable to retrieve her father’s corpse, as dogs picked at the body.Mr. Cardona was born in San Vicente del Caguán, in Caquetá Department, but moved several times throughout childhood after his father, Hernando Cardona Vargas, and his uncle Aldemar Vargas were executed and dumped in a mass grave. They were missing for eight days, until their corpses were unearthed.“My grandmother and mother took us with them to the military base to get their cadavers,” he said. “They took us to the battalion where the people who killed him were asked to give them a proper burial. No one could see their faces because they were disfigured by bullets and too much time had passed.”Mr. Cardona admitted that his childhood memories were murky, but that his recollections of the burial remained vivid, as did the trips to the cemetery where he and his brother clambered atop a statue of Jesus.When his mother, Luz Mercy Cruz, began looking into the circumstances of the double murder, she also sealed her fate. Their only offense, Mr. Cardona said, was that they supported better working conditions and guaranteed human rights. Still, in many parts of Latin America, those convictions are punishable by death. Mr. Cardona’s mother, who supported her two children by sewing and making artisanal crafts, started getting warnings that she was being followed. Eight months after her husband’s murder, she was leading a workshop on human rights at a community gathering in the countryside, close to the mountains where guerrillas were hiding.“The army came and surrounded the place where they were meeting,” he said. “They took out the leaders and took out my mother. They killed seven personas, saying they were linked to the guerrillas.”To this day, he has no idea where his mother is buried.Mr. Cardona was raised by his grandmother in Puerto Rico de Caquetá, where paramilitary forces — whose gaze he had been taught to avert — had imposed a 6 p.m. curfew for several years. He remembers hearing the noisy chaos of government bombs being dropped nearby. One of the themes surrounding Mr. Cardona’s work about his family’s past deals with the nightmares he started having of drowning or being killed by a gunman in his home. Early in the project, he found Polaroid prints of his uncle Euclides, a guerrilla commander, dressed in a camouflage military uniform. The prints were among several photos that the family kept buried in the backyard for years.“A lot of photos had to be buried because the paramilitaries could go into a house and search,” he said. “Who knows how many would have died if they found those pictures.”Mr. Cardona intends to continue his project. He will also keep searching for his mother’s body. It is a painful process, he admitted, but one that is shared with countless countrymen who he said were waiting for later generations to help make sense of the country’s traumatic history.AdvertisementSupported byBy Ed O’Loughlin and Richard Pérez-PeñaDUBLIN — The police in Northern Ireland on Friday blamed militants opposed to British rule there for the killing of a young journalist who was covering a night of violent unrest in Londonderry.“We are treating this as a terrorist incident, and we have launched a murder inquiry,” Mark Hamilton, an assistant chief constable, said of the fatal shooting of the journalist, Lyra McKee, 29.A deputy chief constable, Stephen Martin, told reporters that the police were searching for several suspects. “There was certainly more than one person involved,” he said, adding: “This was not done to further any cause. This will have achieved nothing other than to plunge a family into grief.”Mr. Hamilton said the police were attributing the violence and the killing to the New Irish Republican Army, a militant republican group formed several years ago from the merger of several splinter groups. It is not affiliated in any way with the Provisional Irish Republican Army, which renounced violence in 2005.Many people in Northern Ireland, primarily Roman Catholics, consider themselves republicans, meaning that they want the region to break away from the United Kingdom and join the Republic of Ireland. But the number who pursue that end through violence is relatively small.The violence took place in Creggan, a heavily Catholic area of Londonderry — a city that Catholics and republicans generally call Derry — after the police started carrying out searches in the area because of concerns that militant republicans were storing firearms and explosives there in preparation for an attack to commemorate the 1916 rebellion in Dublin known as the Easter Rising.The searches were followed by a riot in which gasoline bombs were thrown — more than 50, according to the police — and then the attack that killed Ms. McKee. Mr. Hamilton, the assistant chief constable, said she was hit by a gunman firing toward the police.“We saw unrest last year in the run up to Easter and this year it’s exactly the same,” said Marisa McGlinchey, an expert on dissident republicans at the University of Coventry. “We’ve seen an escalation of activity coming up to Easter, and then you have the police responding with searches and arrests, which can lead to street riots.”The outburst of violence was an ominous reminder of the deadly conflict between militant groups of Catholic republicans and Protestant loyalists, who favor remaining part of Britain, that plagued Northern Ireland until a peace agreement was signed in 1998.“It’s important that we all stand together now and resist any further escalation of this,” Mr. Hamilton said.Saoradh (Irish for “Liberation”), a group linked to the New I.R.A., said in a statement that “the blame for last night lies squarely at the feet of the British crown forces, who sought to grab headlines and engineered confrontation with the community.”The group said that a “republican volunteer” had tried to defend Creggan from an attack by the police, which had prompted the riot. “Tragically a young journalist covering the events, Lyra McKee, was killed accidentally while standing behind armed crown force personnel and armored vehicles,” the statement said.Sinn Fein, the former political wing of the Irish Republican Army, and the Democratic Unionist Party condemned the killing of Ms. McKee. Sinn Fein called it an “attack on all the community.”In her last Twitter post — which was retweeted by Naomi O’Leary, a friend and fellow journalist — Ms. McKee wrote: “Derry tonight. Absolute madness.”The violence on Thursday came amid the turmoil caused by Britain’s plans to leave the European Union, a bloc that includes the Republic of Ireland. There are concerns that Britain might leave without any agreement defining its relationship to the union, leading to a “hard border” between Ireland and Northern Ireland, with barriers and checkpoints.Northern Ireland has not had a functioning government for more than two years, since the collapse of a power-sharing agreement between its two main parties — one mostly Protestant, the other mainly Catholic.The Brexit border paradox and the political deadlock in Northern Ireland have, in turn, raised concerns about a resumption of violence, particularly after several packages containing explosives were found last month at the University of Glasgow and three London transport hubs, including Heathrow Airport. The authorities attributed the packages to a splinter group of the Irish Republican Army.“I don’t have any doubt that Brexit is something that is going to invigorate them and bring them out of the shadows,” said Darach MacDonald, a writer and journalist based in Londonderry.Despite the outside perceptions that the 1998 Good Friday peace agreement ended violence in Northern Ireland, police figures for weapons seizures, arrests, assaults and armed attacks remain high, Ms. McGlinchey said, although nothing on the scale of the 1968 to 1998 era of the “Troubles.”Mr. MacDonald also sees a cultural force at work, a perverse nostalgia for Troubles, particularly among bored urban youths too young to have experienced them. He says that while the shots that killed McKee may have been fired by a republican militant, most of the young men rioting in the streets were most likely unaffiliated, merely participating in what has become, in many run-down areas of Northern Ireland, a sort of folk ritual.“It would be something that they would see on news reels,” he says. “A large part of the youth subculture in Derry is now a re-enactment of the past.” He added: “Part of the culture here is a nostalgia for a period when people in the outside world took heed of what happened here. There is an anger about being sidelined, and I suppose that does hanker back to a period when Derry mattered, for all the wrong reasons, but it mattered.”The tragic and apparently accidental victim of the shooting, Ms. McKee, was an investigative journalist from Belfast who was recognized by Forbes magazine in 2016 as one of its “30 Under 30 Europe” for digging “into topics that others don’t care about.”She had worked as an editor for the website Mediagazer since 2011 and had written for BuzzFeed News and Mosaic Science.“Letter to My 14-Year-Old Self,” an article she wrote about the abuse and support she received while growing up gay, was widely read online and made into a short film.Ms. McKee grew up on Cliftonville Road in Belfast, near the area that saw some of the worst violence during the   three decades of sectarian conflict that came to be known as the Troubles. Her work often examined the legacies of that era, which largely came to an end with the signing of the Good Friday Agreement in 1998.A local journalist, Leona O’Neill, wrote on Twitter that she was standing beside Ms. McKee on Thursday night when Ms. McKee fell. She said the police immediately put her in the back of their vehicle and took her to a hospital.In her Twitter feed, Ms. O’Neill described people throwing gasoline bombs, bricks and bottles at the police in the Creggan area. Videos showed vehicles on fire.She said people had gathered in the streets after a large number of police officers started searching a home in the area.After violence erupted, the police appealed for calm.The killing happened the same day that Speaker Nancy Pelosi visited the city to show support for the peace agreement that the United States helped broker two decades ago. Ms. Pelosi said it was vital to keep a “seamless border” after Britain’s withdrawal from the European Union.Ms. McKee wrote a book, “Angels With Blue Faces,” about the 1981 murder of Rev. Robert Bradford, a member of the British Parliament from Belfast.Last year, she signed a two-book deal with the publishing house Faber & Faber. One of those books, “The Lost Boys,” investigates the disappearances of young men in Belfast in the late 1960s and 1970s, and is scheduled for release next year.Ed O’Loughlin reported from Dublin and Richard Perez-Pena from London. Austin Ramzy contributed reporting from Hong Kong.AdvertisementSupported byBy Tim ArangoLOS ANGELES — When a gunman rolled up to Nipsey Hussle’s Marathon Clothing store late last month, the first person to be shot was Kerry Lathan, recently released from prison and there to pick up a T-shirt. Mr. Lathan was shot in the back, before Hussle, the renowned rap artist, was killed.Days later, Mr. Lathan, using a wheelchair while he recovered from his wound, was arrested and held in the Men’s Central Jail — not because he had committed a crime, but because he had violated parole by associating with a known gang member: Nipsey Hussle.Never mind that Hussle had been lauded as a businessman and a philanthropist, mourned with a 25-mile procession through the streets of South Los Angeles, and celebrated by former President Barack Obama. Or that he had been killed one day before he was set to sit down with the city’s police chief to talk about reducing gang violence.Mr. Lathan’s reimprisonment stirred outrage in the city’s black community, where memories of aggressive gang policing in the 1980s and 1990s are still raw. It also brought renewed attention to a system of parole and probation that can land people back behind bars for violating lengthy sets of conditions that can include curfews, random searches and control over where people can live and whom they can see.After Mr. Lathan, 56, spent 10 days in jail, apparently even parole officials could no longer reconcile Nipsey Hussle the local hero with Nipsey Hussle the gang member. On Thursday, after appeals to Gov. Gavin Newsom by family members and calls to the governor’s office by reporters, the head of the California Department of Corrections and Rehabilitation, Ralph M. Diaz, intervened, and the charges against Mr. Lathan were dropped.“Although there was a technical violation of the terms and conditions of Mr. Lathan’s parole, after reviewing the circumstances in more detail, C.D.C.R. requested the petition to be dismissed,” a department spokesman wrote.More than 4.5 million people in the United States are on parole or probation — nearly twice as many as are incarcerated — and in some states people whose parole or probation was revoked account for more than half the prison population. According to a study by the Pew Charitable Trusts, about 20 percent of people released from state prisons are sent back for technical violations, meaning they did not commit a new crime but rather violated conditions, like a ban on entering places that serve alcohol or having any contact with the police — or, in the protracted case of the rapper Meek Mill, an order to take etiquette classes.Critics say probation and parole often go on far longer than necessary and keep people enmeshed in the criminal justice system, and that those accused of violations have limited due process.California, once a leader in get-tough-on-crime policies that swelled prison populations, is now seen as at the forefront of national efforts to address mass incarceration and racial disparities in the criminal justice system. In recent years, the state has reduced some drug crimes and thefts to misdemeanors, passed a bill to outlaw cash bail and allowed more inmates to be released for good behavior.But many parole violations involve alleged links to gang members.“Gangs are the great exception” to the trend away from incarceration, said Jorja Leap, a gang expert at the University of California at Los Angeles. Even with significant questions about how gangs, gang membership and gang-related crimes are defined, such crimes carry enhanced punishments and a person tagged as having gang affiliations can find the label impossible to shake.“If someone like Nipsey Hussle is viewed as always a gang member,” Dr. Leap said, “what is happening to the average guy who has a low-level job, who’s trying to make it, and that’s his past? Or the average gal, because it’s men and women alike.”California has long maintained a database of gang members called CalGang, and apparently Hussle, who had spoken publicly about his past experience as a member of the Crips, was still listed, despite the turn in his life. The arresting document for Mr. Lathan called Hussle a “documented ‘Rolling 60’s Crip’ gang member.”The database, which is available only to law enforcement, has long been seen in minority communities as a way for the state to criminalize young black and Latino men, with little oversight or due process. The database has also, academics and activists say, made it nearly impossible for those on parole to avoid contact with gang members, because so many names are on the list and no one really knows who.Though law enforcement has defended the list as necessary to fight gang violence, a state audit in 2016 found that it was misused and rife with errors, including dozens of people listed as being less than 1 year old and hundreds who were not set to be purged from the list for more than a century — far longer than the law allowed.“It’s really wrong to be permanently putting people on these lists,” said Vincent Schiraldi, an expert on probation at Columbia University. “It’s very racially divisive. It makes people in communities of color feel like they never have a chance to be viewed as equals.”Mr. Lathan was released last September for serving almost 25 years on a murder conviction, and like countless men coming out of prison whom Hussle was trying to help, he was loosely in the rapper’s orbit. Hussle had known his sister, Ellisa McKnight, and had given her a car full of clothes for her brother when he was released.But Mr. Lathan barely knew Hussle, even though he had hopes of working with him in his programs to reduce gang violence.“At the time of his death he was an icon of the community,” Ms. McKnight said of Hussle. “The whole city shut down to mourn this man. Even Congress recognized him. So how is it that Mr. Lathan was going to have a meeting with a person affiliated with a gang?”Mr. Lathan, in a recent interview from jail that was recorded by a friend and uploaded to VladTV, said he had taken a selfie with Hussle. “He’s a celebrity,” he said. “Everybody’s taking selfies, let me take one. That’s on my phone, in front of the Marathon store.”Mr. Lathan, who said he was feeling “bad as hell” without his pain medication, related his conversation with his parole officer at the time of his arrest: “The parole officer was like, ‘Well you have gang affiliations.’ I said, ‘Look man, I know Nipsey about as much as I know you. You’re my parole officer. I’ve met you. We’ve talked a few times. That’s as far as I know him.’”In a statement, the Los Angeles Police Department, trying to blunt criticism and put down rumors in the city’s black community that the police were behind Mr. Lathan’s arrest, said this week that Mr. Lathan was “being treated as a victim and a witness in this investigation.”The statement noted that it was the Department of Corrections that had arrested Mr. Lathan.Steve Soboroff, the president of the Los Angeles Board of Police Commissioners, who was planning to meet with Hussle to talk about combating gang violence, said in an interview: “We don’t think he’s a gang member. If someone said, ‘Could Nipsey babysit my grandkids?’ I’d say ‘yes.’”Mr. Lathan had turned his life around in prison by participating in numerous programs and working closely with older inmates, his lawyer, Lauren Noriega, said.“This area of the law is so flawed,” said Ms. Noriega, of parole policies and gang databases. “It doesn’t make any sense. It doesn’t give these guys or these women any chance to prove that they have been rehabilitated and actually get a second chance.”