AdvertisementSupported byBy Tiffany HsuGun control activists have spent years trying to limit the number of assault-style firearms available to civilians: holding rallies, drafting proposed laws and backing campaigns by shareholders of publicly traded gun makers.Now, one advocacy group is focusing on a different pressure point: the consumer banks that provide loans and other financial support to the gun industry.The group, Guns Down America, which formed in 2016 after a mass shooting in Orlando, Fla., has created a ranking system that gives 15 banks letter grades based primarily on their ties to firearms makers and trade groups like the National Rifle Association.Six of the banks, including JPMorgan Chase and Wells Fargo, received failing grades. Citigroup earned the highest one, a B.Igor Volsky, Guns Down America’s founder and executive director, said he hoped the grading system would compel banks to be more publicly supportive of gun control measures, in the same way that many companies have taken positions on gay rights, immigration and other social issues.Part of the mission, he added, is stopping “the Wild Wild West of how gun manufacturers both produce military-style weapons and also how they can market those firearms.”“We’re not interested in shaming banks or running a campaign focused on how evil they are,” Mr. Volsky said. “Our end goal is to change the way banks make decisions when doing business with the gun industry.”The group used a 100-point scale that applied different weights to factors like a bank’s loans to and investments in gun makers; its public statements about gun safety; its support for lawmakers backed by the N.R.A.; and the discounts and deals it offers to N.R.A. members.The basis for the grades was publicly available information gathered from media reports, regulatory documents, campaign finance filings and other sources. Any undisclosed updates to gun-related deals, legal complications that might affect those arrangements and internal discussions were not reflected.Guns Down America said it had shared its methodology and individual grades with all 15 banks and was involved in continuing talks with some of them, but several banks contacted for comment said that they had not been consulted and that the group had relied on arbitrary metrics.In the past year, gun safety groups have begun looking more closely at the firearms industry’s corporate ties, with the scrutiny leading some businesses to make changes.After a mass shooting in Parkland, Fla., Delta Air Lines, Hertz and several other companies broke with the N.R.A., and retailers like Dick’s Sporting Goods made some guns harder to buy. Influential Wall Street figures like Laurence D. Fink, the chief executive of BlackRock, publicly embraced gun safety efforts.In March, estimated firearm sales in the United States slipped 12.6 percent from a year earlier, to nearly 1.4 million units, according to the research firm Small Arms Analytics & Forecasting.The financial industry’s connections to gun makers have drawn attention before. In December, The New York Times reported that many of the mass shootings in the past decade had been financed with credit cards.[Read out how banks unwittingly provide financing for mass shootings.]Some banks have already started to revise their policies and practices on firearms. Citigroup, which earned a score of 84 from Guns Down America, said in March 2018 that it would work only with clients that agreed to certain restrictions on firearm sales.A short time later, Bank of America said it would stop lending to companies that made military-inspired firearms for civilian use. It was subsequently criticized for its commitment to contribute $43.2 million in bankruptcy financing for Remington.Bank of America, which did not respond to a request for comment, got a C from Guns Down America.The six banks that received failing grades all had more than $200 million in recent financial arrangements with gun companies, according to Guns Down America.The group gave JPMorgan Chase a 48, finding that it had contributed $21,000 to politicians strongly supported by the N.R.A., and had a $273 million financing arrangement with Vista Outdoor. Guns Down America did not specify whether the money was directed only to Vista’s gun business, which the company had said it plans to sell.Marianne Lake, JPMorgan’s chief financial officer, said last year that the bank’s links to military-style firearms “have come down significantly and are pretty limited.” JPMorgan declined to comment on the Guns Down America grade.BB&T was last on the Guns Down America list. Its score of 20 was partly a result of its arranging $147 million in loans to the industry from 2012 to 2016 and partly a result of its recent involvement in a $78 million revolving credit line for Smith & Wesson, according to the gun control group.Brian Davis, a spokesman for BB&T, said the bank was “deeply concerned with the increasing amount of gun violence in our schools and communities,” and listened to “a wide range of opinions” on gun control. He said the bank did not comment publicly about its financial relationships.Guns Down America found that Wells Fargo, which fared slightly better at 25 points, had extended $471 million in loans and credit to gun makers since 2012, including a $40 million loan to Sturm Ruger last year. The N.R.A. also uses Wells Fargo, and the bank donated $92,000 to a group of lawmakers supported by the trade group, Guns Down America said.Trisha Schultz, a Wells Fargo spokeswoman, said in a statement that the bank planned to invest more than $10 million over three years in studying gun-violence prevention and in improving school safety. The bank, she said, has “a small and declining relationship with the N.R.A.”But Ms. Schultz added that “changes to gun laws and regulations should be determined through a legislative process that gives the American public an opportunity to participate and not be arbitrarily set by a bank.”“We do not believe that the American public wants banks to decide which legal products consumers can and cannot buy,” she said.Because of an editing error an earlier version of this article misidentified whose links to military-style firearms “have come down significantly and are pretty limited,” according to Marianne Lake, JPMorgan’s chief financial officer. Ms. Lake was referring to the bank’s links to such firearms, not Vista Outdoor’s links.Follow Tiffany Hsu on Twitter: @tiffkhsu.Paul Manafort’s Trail of ScandalsMy Dead Dad’s Porno TapesTen Meter TowerBetween Sound and SilenceCoal Miner to Trump: “Coal Mining Isn’t Coming Back”House Tour | Cary LeibowitzSanctuary City HotlineAdvertisementSupported byBy Adam LiptakWASHINGTON — The Supreme Court on Thursday refused to block a Trump administration initiative banning bump stocks, the attachments that enable semiautomatic rifles to fire in sustained, rapid bursts.The court’s action, in a one-sentence order, means that the regulation will remain in force while challenges to it move forward in the courts. There were no noted dissents.The case concerns executive power, not the Second Amendment. The lead plaintiff, Gun Owners of America, which describes itself as “the ‘no compromise’ gun lobby,” argued that the administration had exceeded its authority by banning bump stocks under federal laws that largely ban machine guns. (The National Rifle Association was not a party to the suit.)Bump stocks work by harnessing a firearm’s recoil energy to allow it to keep firing after a single pull of the trigger. The Justice Department has said this transforms semiautomatic weapons into fully automatic machine guns.The regulation, which went into effect on Tuesday, bans the sale or possession of bump stocks, which were used by a gunman to massacre 58 people and wound hundreds of others at a Las Vegas concert in October 2017.Under the regulation, Americans who own bump stocks have 90 days to destroy their devices or to turn them in to the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives.In instructions posted on its website, the bureau suggested “crushing, melting or shredding” as acceptable methods of destruction.Michael E. Hammond, a lawyer with Gun Owners of America, said the group “wouldn’t advocate that anyone violate the law.” But he added that the regulation may be hard to enforce.“My guess, from the states that have enacted bump stock bans, is that most of the 500,000 people that have bump stocks are not going to turn them in, if history is any indication,” Mr. Hammond said.The Justice Department initially decided that the executive branch did not have the authority to ban bump stocks without congressional action. It later changed course, determining it could ban the devices on its own.“Bump stocks” are attachments that enable semiautomatic rifles to fire faster, almost like machine guns. Twelve of the rifles found in the hotel room of the Las Vegas gunman were fitted with the devices.Gun owners challenged the regulation in a federal trial court in Michigan, saying that federal law did not allow the executive branch’s action. They added that the regulation would require the destruction of devices worth more than $100 million.Judge Paul L. Maloney, of the Federal District Court in Kalamazoo, Mich., last week refused to block the regulation. “Congress restricts access to machine guns because of the threat the weapons pose to public safety,” he wrote. “Restrictions on bump stocks advance the same interest. All of the public is at risk, including the smaller number of bump stock owners.”On Monday, a three-judge panel of the United States Court of Appeals for the Sixth Circuit, in Cincinnati, rejected a request from the challengers for a stay of the regulation while an appeal from Judge Maloney’s decision moved forward.The panel acknowledged that the plaintiffs “will suffer irreparable harm.” But it said that “the public interest in safety supports denial of a stay pending appeal.”The plaintiffs then turned to the Supreme Court. “This case represents the single biggest A.T.F. seizure of private property in history,” their lawyers wrote, “made even more noxious because all existing bump stocks were manufactured and purchased in accordance with A.T.F. rulings approving their sale.”Solicitor General Noel J. Francisco, representing the administration, urged the justices to deny the stay in the case, Gun Owners of America v. Barr, No. 18A963.“The protection of the public and law enforcement officers from the proliferation of prohibited firearms is a bedrock foundation of federal firearms legislation,” he wrote, adding that the regulation “promotes that public interest by protecting the public from the dangers posed by machine guns prohibited by federal law.”The regulation has been challenged in other courts, too, but so far none of them have ruled for the plaintiffs. After a federal trial judge in Washington refused to enter a preliminary injunction, the United States Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit did issue a temporary stay of the regulation, but it applied only to the plaintiffs in the case before it.The challengers in that case, Guedes v. Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives, No. 18A964, asked the Supreme Court to intervene. “Hundreds of thousands of citizens,” they wrote, “will be required to surrender or destroy their property or face felony charges for possession of devices that were unquestionably legal under A.T.F.’s construction of the statute for the past 85 years and A.T.F.’s prior written rulings stating as much.”“No person,” their brief said, “should have to face the threat of felony prosecution and deprivation of their property due to the rushed and arbitrary time frame A.T.F. placed on these proceedings.”Chief Justice John G. Roberts Jr., noting that the appeals court had already imposed a partial stay, denied the application on Tuesday.Follow Adam Liptak on Twitter: @adamliptak.AdvertisementSupported byBy Matt StevensA Dallas man was sentenced to eight years in prison on Wednesday after the authorities caught him with a partially 3-D-printed rifle and what federal prosecutors described as a hit list of lawmakers in his backpack.The man, Eric Gerard McGinnis, had been under a court order that prohibited him from possessing a firearm when he was discovered to have had the partially printed AR-15-style rifle in July 2017, according to a statement from the United States attorney’s office for the Northern District of Texas.Mr. McGinnis, 43, was charged with possession of an unregistered firearm and possession of ammunition by a prohibited person, prosecutors said. A jury later convicted him on both counts.Prosecutors said in their statement that police officers had arrested Mr. McGinnis after hearing three shots he had apparently fired in a wooded area just outside Dallas. They also discovered a list in his backpack labeled “9/11/2001 list of American Terrorists.” The list included the office and home addresses of “several federal lawmakers, both Democrat and Republican,” the statement said.Prosecutors did not reveal the names on Mr. McGinnis’s list, but at the sentencing hearing on Wednesday they disclosed that a forensic analysis of his electronic devices suggested that Mr. McGinnis “had a strong interest” in James T. Hodgkinson, the man who the authorities say shot and wounded Representative Steve Scalise and several others at a congressional baseball practice in June 2017.“When he realized he couldn’t legally purchase a firearm, Eric McGinnis circumvented our gun laws by 3-D printing his weapon, eliminating the need for a background check,” United States Attorney Erin Nealy Cox said in the statement. “This case should send a message to prohibited persons contemplating acquiring guns by any method.”Late Wednesday, Juan G. Rodriguez, a lawyer for Mr. McGinnis, declined to comment on the sentencing.In August 2015, a judge enacted a protective order against Mr. McGinnis after what prosecutors said was “a violent altercation with a live-in girlfriend.” The order barred him from possessing firearms or ammunition for two years, but Mr. McGinnis tried to buy a semiautomatic rifle component at a federally licensed gun shop in June 2016, prosecutors said.The prospective purchase was rejected after a background check flagged the order, prosecutors said.So Mr. McGinnis decided instead to use a 3-D printer to create a gun’s “lower receiver” — its firing mechanism — and obtain other necessary parts like a barrel, stock, and grip through alternate means, prosecutors said. Once he had all the parts he needed, he assembled a short-barrel AR-15-style rifle, they said.Then, in July 2017, with about a month left on his protective order, Mr. McGinnis took the gun to the wooded area outside Dallas where Grand Prairie police officers, out on another call, heard three shots fired and eventually took him into custody, prosecutors said. Upon inspecting his backpack, they found the loaded gun and the hit list with the names and addresses of federal lawmakers, prosecutors said. At one point during his confrontation with the police, they said, Mr. McGinnis falsely claimed to work for the C.I.A.“I didn’t buy a gun, I built the gun,” Mr. McGinnis said in a recorded phone call to a family member, according to prosecutors. “I printed a lower, and I built it — installed the trigger and did all that stuff.”In Wednesday’s statement, Jeffrey C. Boshek II, a special agent with the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives, acknowledged that “the fact a prohibited person was able to manufacture an untraceable firearm with apparent ease and anonymity presents a significant challenge and major concern to law enforcement and our community.”But he also noted, “Controls to determine if an individual is prohibited from purchasing firearms and ammunition worked.”AdvertisementSupported byBy Damien Cave and Matt StevensThe shootings that killed at least 49 people at two mosques in New Zealand on Friday have placed new scrutiny on New Zealand’s gun laws and sparked a fervent debate about whether they were a factor in the gunman’s decision to carry out his attack there.The man was identified in court papers as Brenton Harrison Tarrant, 28, and officials have said he was an Australian citizen, which has led to comparisons between gun laws in Australia and in New Zealand.While New Zealand’s laws governing the purchase of semiautomatic rifles are more restrictive than those in the United States, the country is much freer with firearms than Australia is, allowing most guns to be purchased without requiring them to be tracked.“New Zealand is almost alone with the United States in not registering 96 percent of its firearms — and those are its most common firearms, the ones most used in crimes,” said Philip Alpers of GunPolicy.org, a clearinghouse for gun law data worldwide. “There are huge gaps in New Zealand law, even if some of its laws are strong.”New Zealand’s prime minister, Jacinda Ardern, said on Saturday that five firearms, including two semiautomatic weapons, were used in the attacks.“If he went to New Zealand to commit these crimes,” Mr. Alpers said, “one can assume that the ease of obtaining these firearms may have been a factor in his decision to commit the crime in Christchurch.”[Get the latest updates on the New Zealand terrorist attack here.]In the years since a gunman killed 35 people in Port Arthur, Tasmania, in 1996, Australia has embarked on one of the world’s most expansive efforts to rid a society of gun violence. Officials significantly strengthened gun laws, severely restricted semiautomatic weapons and engaged in a buyback program that took more than 650,000 firearms off the streets.The gun laws in New Zealand are more layered, and do not fit easily into a pro or anti-gun rubric.Semiautomatic rifles and handguns, for example, require special licenses; a person can only buy one semiautomatic weapon at a time. “The police will look very askance at you if you want four or five of them,” Mr. Alpers said. “It gets harder and harder if you want more and more.” Still, Mr. Alpers said, it is possible to obtain a large cache of weapons — either by acting alone or if more than one person is purchasing.As the law stands now, any person age 16 or older with an entry-level firearm license can keep any number of common rifles and shotguns without an official record of those guns being kept.Most of the guns in circulation can be sold on the internet or through ads in newspapers, and the most popular types of firearms can lawfully change hands in private homes or even hotel parking lots with no requirement that a record of the transaction be kept.Still, the country has generally been safe from gun massacres. Its last mass shooting, which left 13 people dead, was in 1990 — and it led to tighter rules around semiautomatic weapons.Police officers do not generally carry firearms and murders are rare; the death toll from Friday’s terrorist attack is roughly equivalent to the number of murders that occur in the country each year. The annual tally of gun homicides specifically is even lower.“New Zealanders are by and large safe users of firearms and that has led everybody to relax,” Mr. Alpers said. “It’s led New Zealanders to think they don’t have a problem.”[The gunman appeared to be steeped in the culture of the extreme-right internet.]At the same time, however, New Zealand’s gun culture is significant and deeply ingrained. Like the United States, Australia and Canada, New Zealand’s frontier history has led to a proliferation of guns used for sport, for protecting wide open spaces from animals, and for dealing with problems like wounded cattle.Of the 3.9 million New Zealanders of gun licensing age, 238,000 — 6 percent — have a firearm license, according to GunPolicy.org.“Our gun laws will change, now is the time,” Ms. Ardern said Saturday, though she did not say what that legislation would look like. “People will be seeking change, and I am committed to that.”Mr. Alpers predicted that lawmakers would work to make guns harder to obtain.“This will certainly change things in New Zealand,” he said. “I can’t think of a country that’s more likely to change its gun laws after something like this.”AdvertisementSupported byBy Jamie TarabayThey share a name, and both espouse a love of guns, but beyond that, the National Rifle Association in New Zealand has little in common with America’s most powerful gun advocacy group.The New Zealand organization, which has no formal connection to the N.R.A. in the United States, is the country’s governing body for the sport of long-range target shooting. It does not engage in the sort of political lobbying for which the American group has built such a fierce reputation.And that helps explain why the New Zealand group’s reaction to the massacre at two mosques in Christchurch last week has borne little resemblance to how the American N.R.A. has responded to recent mass shootings in the United States.On Thursday, six days after the Christchurch attacks, New Zealand’s prime minister, Jacinda Ardern, announced a national ban on military-style semiautomatic weapons, on parts that allow guns to be modified into such weapons, and on high-capacity ammunition magazines.In the United States, calls for far less sweeping gun restrictions have drawn immediate and overwhelming resistance from the N.R.A. In New Zealand, the local gun organization will not be among those pushing against the new bans.In fact, the sorts of military-style weapons being targeted are already unwelcome in the New Zealand organization.“N.R.A. N.Z. looks after long-range precision target shooting, up to 1,000 yards,” said the group’s chairman, Ross Mason. “There’s no service rifle or military rifle shooting within the discipline, as opposed to the N.R.A.” in the United States, “which looks after all the disciplines and seems to be the political arm of the organization as well.”The New Zealand organization has considered a name change to avoid being associated with the American group.Many Americans can buy a gun in less than an hour. In New Zealand, the process can take weeks or months.Perhaps the biggest difference between the United States and New Zealand when it comes to guns is the foundation of ownership in the first place, Mr. Mason said.“It is treated as a privilege to have a firearm here, as opposed to it being a right in America,” he said.In New Zealand, gun owners are subjected to rigorous background checks and requirements, though they are not required to register their weapons. In the United States, passing an instant background check is often all that is required for an adult to buy a firearm, although laws vary by state.Even after acquiring a license, gun owners in New Zealand continue to be subjected to scrutiny from the authorities, Mr. Mason said.“If your name comes up with a police or traffic complaint, that list gets looked at by the police firearms division,” he said. “If it looks like your name is coming up more often, they’ll come and have a word with you.”AdvertisementSupported byBy Serge F. KovaleskiA San Francisco software executive has donated more than $62,000 to try to ensure that the cache of firearms that was owned by the gunman in the Las Vegas massacre will be destroyed.In the aftermath of the 2017 shooting, loved ones of the 58 people who lost their lives in the rampage faced a difficult choice over what to do with the 50 guns and accessories that were owned by the gunman, Stephen Paddock. They could possibly sell the weapons to raise money or have the guns destroyed in a symbolic renunciation of violence.Now the families don’t have to worry about making that decision — the donor, who wishes to remain anonymous, has stepped in to cover the funds. His only condition is that the guns are destroyed.The collection of firearms and equipment was valued at $62,340 in a recent inventory of Mr. Paddock’s nearly $1.4 million estate by a court-appointed special administrator. As Mr. Paddock died without a will, his mother, under Nevada law, became the heir to his assets, which she agreed to give to the families of the dead victims last March.After reading a New York Times article about the families’ gun dilemma that was published earlier this month, the California businessman decided to write a check to the families for $62,500. He contacted a reporter at The Times so that he could get in touch with the lawyer for the special administrator of the estate.“It was tugging at my heart strings and it seemed like a horrific situation for the families to deal with this choice,” he said in an interview. “I wanted to alleviate some of the pain or at least not allow it to get worse.”The executive said that he wants the donation to be anonymous because the focus should be on the families.“No credit in the face of pain,” he said. “This was about heartbreak and wanting to help.”He said he made the donation conditional on the destruction of the firearms — which range from pistols to high-powered long arms — to ensure they do not end up back in circulation.“I think the families would feel better if the weapons are gone,” he said.Alice Denton, the lawyer for the special administrator of the estate, said the F.B.I., which is in possession of the firearms, had given a verbal commitment that it would destroy the weapons if it received a court order to do so. She said that she would seek such an order next month from the Las Vegas judge overseeing the estate case. In the meantime, no action to destroy the guns would be taken.A spokeswoman for the F.B.I.’s Las Vegas field office said the bureau was unable to comment.The executive — who said he favors stronger gun control but does not consider himself “an anti-gun activist” — said if it turns out that the F.B.I. will not destroy the firearms, he would try to find another way to have it done.Ms. Denton said that she received the check last week and was delighted about the donor’s generosity.“We are so grateful,” she said. “It shows the compassion that total strangers can have for victims of horrendous crimes, and that, in the face of such evil, there are good people.”Mynda Smith, whose sister was killed in the attack, said the donor’s gesture and his desire to see the guns destroyed would help relatives like her deal with their sorrow.“His desire to alleviate any more emotional pain for the families of the 58, and all survivors really, is what makes it a beautiful thing,” Ms. Smith said. “Closing this door in this way is the perfect gift for us.”Ms. Denton said the check has been deposited in her trust account and that it would be transferred to the estate once the guns are destroyed.Nearly half of the guns in question — 23 rifles and a revolver — were found in the gunman’s upper-floor room at the Mandalay Bay Resort and Casino, according to the estate inventory.It was from that perch at the hotel that he opened fire on an outdoor country music festival. Not only were dozens of people slaughtered, hundreds of others were injured in the worst mass shooting in modern American history.The rest of the gunman’s firearms were in his two Nevada homes. At his house in Mesquite, seven rifles, seven shotguns and five handguns were collected. The estate recently sold that property to an Oregon couple for $425,000.And two shotguns and five handguns were found at the gunman’s Reno home, which is still listed on the market for $374,900.Lawyers for some of the victims have said that distributing the money to only the loved ones of the dead meant that it could have a far greater impact on their lives than if the large number of people hurt in the attack were also beneficiaries.If the gunman’s estate were to be divided up equally, each of the 58 families would receive about $24,000 — with the firearms accounting for close to $1,100 per family. The estate also includes an investment property worth a little more than $90,000 and bank and brokerage accounts totaling $455,758.One family, who intends to sue the manufacturers of the guns used in the shooting, would like to see those weapons kept in tact rather than destroyed.Through a lawyer, the family of Carrie Parsons, who was killed in the attack, has reached out to Ms. Denton.“What we are saying is ‘Please don’t destroy these, they are evidence,” said one of the family’s lawyers, Rick Friedman, who added that he had not yet been able to identify those firearms.“Destroying guns he did not use, I have no problem with,” Mr. Friedman said.AdvertisementSupported byBy Nick Corasaniti[What you need to know to start the day: Get New York Today in your inbox.]It began as an operation targeting a cocaine ring in southern New Jersey. But after investigators listened to a wire tap, the case took on an unexpected focus: do-it-yourself firearms made from parts easily found online.The suspects in New Jersey are accused of trying to sell several homemade AR-15 assault-style rifles that are known as ghost guns because they cannot be tracked. The AR-15 rifle is a powerful weapon similar to the one used to kill 11 people last year at a Pittsburgh synagogue.On Monday, New Jersey law enforcement officials announced the arrests of four men who became the first defendants charged under a law passed last year that makes it illegal to buy, manufacture, possess or sell homemade guns in the state. California is the only other state that restricts such weapons, but New Jersey’s version is far more stringent, according to national gun control groups.In fact, one of the suspects is heard on a wiretap specifically citing New Jersey’s law and saying they had to move the weapon sales out of state.“Ghost guns are a real and dangerous menace,” Gurbir Grewal, the attorney general of New Jersey, said in a news conference in Camden where he discussed the case. “They offer criminals, convicted felons, terrorists, domestic abusers, people who we all agree shouldn’t access firearms, the ability to access them.”New Jersey already has some of the country’s toughest gun laws, but buying parts individually and assembling them at home — often with the help of online videos and instructions — could allow people with criminal records and others who would not pass background checks to obtain guns.Marketed to gun enthusiasts who enjoy building their own firearms, companies that sell kits are making it easier for guns to circulate illegally, law enforcement authorities and gun control advocates said.“You go to some of the websites, they offer you discounts if you buy a pack of five or a pack of 10,” said J. Adam Skaggs, the chief counsel and policy director at the Giffords Law Center to Prevent Gun Violence. “Now, you ask yourself, am I going to buy a discounted 10-pack of ghost guns because I want to build myself 10 guns to use at the range? Or am I going to buy a 10-pack if I’m a would-be trafficker who wants to start a little factory of my own and sell these at a markup to people who can’t pass a background check?”Across the country, there have been arrests involving ghost guns with the accused charged with violating other state and federal laws. In New York, a police sergeant was accused of selling ghost guns to members of a motorcycle gang who had criminal records.The difficulty of disrupting illegal ghost gun operations is underscored by the circuitous route that led authorities to the trafficking ring in New Jersey.The investigation began as a probe into a large cocaine ring in Lindenwold, a town in Camden County, Mr. Grewal said. Law enforcement authorities only became aware of the illegal gun trafficking through conversations between two of the alleged members of the criminal network that were secretly recorded.“They changed some law,” one suspect was recorded saying, “so we gotta go over to Philly to pick them up.”A second suspect said, “We just gotta go out of state now.’’The suspects would have parts for guns shipped across the Delaware River to Pennsylvania to get around the New Jersey law, and then would bring them back into the state, Mr. Grewal said.Law enforcement officials eventually recovered six AR-15 rifles made from parts without serial numbers, which were being offered on the black market for $1,100 to $1,300, nearly double the market price for an AR-15 assault-style rifle. They also intercepted parts for two more assault-style rifles that had been shipped to Pennsylvania.Another eight men were also arrested as part of the illicit operation and were charged mostly with drug-related offenses.Though these were the first arrests for trafficking ghost guns under the new law, Mr. Grewal said other ghost guns have turned up in the state. The State Police had recovered “well over 15 in the last year,’’ he said.“We are starting to see them at crime scenes,’’ he added. “We are starting to see them in our investigations. They are not an abstract threat. They are a real threat to public safety.”There are multiple investigations into ghost gun manufacturers and criminal networks, Mr. Grewal said. But, he added, responsibility also rests with manufacturers.“When you see repeatedly the same address and the same individuals at the same location continuing to order parts and parts and parts and parts for the same types of guns, some red flags have to go up,” Mr. Grewal said.Follow Nick Corasaniti on Twitter: @NYTnickc AdvertisementSupported byBy Richard A. Oppel Jr.The workplace shooting in a Chicago suburb last week that left five people dead exposed the failings of the system designed to keep guns away from convicted felons and others deemed too dangerous to handle firearms.Federal law bars gun ownership by felons, fugitives, drug abusers, people adjudicated to be mentally ill, those dishonorably discharged from the military or living in the country illegally, and by convicted domestic abusers or others subject to domestic violence restraining orders. But experts say the number of people who are barred from owning guns but have them anyway may reach into the millions.Still, only eight states have laws that provide an explicit mechanism so that people suspected of having guns in violation of those prohibitions are actually required to give them up. And some of those states merely allow — but do not require — the police to seek a court order to confiscate such guns.That was the case in Illinois, where the authorities knew for more than four years that Gary Martin was a violent felon but apparently did nothing to ensure that he surrendered the laser-sighted Smith & Wesson handgun that he used to kill five co-workers in Aurora, Ill., on Friday.The authorities say they are investigating how Mr. Martin slipped through the cracks of the Illinois law, which the police might have been able to use to confiscate his handgun years ago. And the Illinois State Police said they were reviewing why an initial background check failed to turn up a criminal conviction that should have blocked him from buying the gun to begin with.[Read more about the Aurora shooting here.]Across the nation, these problems keep coming to light: A man who killed 26 people at a Texas church in 2017 passed a background check to get a weapon despite a military conviction for domestic assault that should have barred him from having guns.A man who killed nine people at a South Carolina church in 2015 bought his gun after a background check failed to immediately reveal that he had admitted possessing a controlled substance.Last year, a man killed four people at a Waffle House restaurant in Tennessee using an assault weapon that he had been required to give up under the Illinois law just eight months before.Unlike Illinois, most states do not have an explicit process allowing the police a way to confiscate guns from people suspected of being prohibited owners. But even in those states that do, two factors explain why many police and sheriff’s departments use these laws so infrequently: time and danger.“That’s a challenging situation for law enforcement to knock on a door and say, ‘Hey, we’re here to take your guns, Mr. Dangerous Criminal,’” said Adam Skaggs, chief counsel of the Giffords Law Center to Prevent Gun Violence, which advocates tighter gun laws.Only a single state — California — has a database dedicated to tracking firearm owners who have lost their right to possess a gun, either because of a new criminal conviction or something else. The program, which was created in 2001 and went online five years later, was sponsored by the Republican leader in the State Senate and was approved with strong bipartisan support.Agents from the California Department of Justice work with local law enforcement officials to surveil and disarm people in the database believed to illegally own firearms.“They’re like little SWAT teams,” said Mark Leno, a former California state senator who sponsored a $24 million special appropriation in 2013 to hire 36 more state agents and reduce a backlog of suspected illegal gun owners.“It is very labor intensive to do this right, and there is always the risk that someone, especially if they are suffering from a serious mental illness, could become very frightened and might act out,” said Mr. Leno, a Democrat from San Francisco.Prompting state lawmakers to approve the funding were cases like that of Roy Perez, a mentally ill man who had been in the California database for three years when he shot and killed his mother, his neighbor, and his neighbor’s 4-year-old daughter in Baldwin Park in 2008. He was scheduled to have his gun confiscated when the killings occurred, but agents did not get to him in time.Since then, the program has shown results: In the past five years, California has cut by half, to about 10,000, the backlog of people in the database believed to own firearms illegally, even though nearly 41,000 names were added over that time. In 2017 alone, the program seized almost 4,000 guns.Thousands also obtain guns every year because of a loophole that allows gun dealers to sell firearms to people whose background checks have not been completed after three business days. In 2017, guns were sold to at least 4,864 people who were later flagged in the system after their background checks took longer than three days.Aside from California, only Connecticut and Nevada expressly require felons to provide proof to courts or to law enforcement that they have turned over guns after conviction, according to the Giffords Law Center. Illinois and four other states — Hawaii, Massachusetts, New York and Pennsylvania — also provide statutory mechanisms for felons to turn over illegally possessed weapons, though the procedures are not as stringent.But when Illinois lawmakers sought to tighten state law so that the police would be mandated to confiscate guns owned by people barred from possessing them, or at least verify that the guns had been transferred to legal owners, concerns about manpower helped doom the proposal.“Law enforcement didn’t object to the essence of the law,” but said they would need far more money to carry it out, said State Representative Kathleen Willis, a Democrat from suburban Chicago who is pushing to toughen the law.A handful of other states also require people convicted of domestic abuse or subject to restraining orders to give up weapons. Some states also allow a judge to temporarily take firearms from those deemed a threat to themselves or others.Strengthening — but not expanding — the existing background check system is one of the few gun-related issues that have had bipartisan support. Last year, Senator John Cornyn, Republican of Texas, sponsored a bill to make sure more records of felony and domestic abuse convictions were fed into the system.“For years agencies and states haven’t complied with the law, failing to upload these critical records without consequence,” Mr. Cornyn said before the bill became law. “Just one record that’s not properly reported can lead to tragedy.”In Mr. Martin’s case, he was issued a state firearm owner’s card in January 2014 — and five weeks later he passed a background check to buy his handgun — even though he had been convicted of aggravated assault for stabbing a former girlfriend with a knife and hitting her with a baseball bat in Mississippi in 1995.The Illinois State Police said Mr. Martin, who died in a shootout with officers on Friday, lied on his firearm owner’s card application about whether he had any felony convictions. They also indicated that the conviction only surfaced during a separate request for a concealed-carry permit a few months later because his fingerprints were submitted as part of that application.According to the State Police, 10,818 people had Illinois firearm owner’s cards revoked last year. But in most cases they failed — as Mr. Martin did in 2014 — to turn in required paperwork stating how they disposed of any weapons.And those numbers may represent only a fraction of the felons and others across the country who are barred from gun ownership but who possess them anyway.One in five gun purchases is estimated to occur with no background check, such as through sales over the internet or at gun shows, said Kris Brown, president of the Brady Center to Prevent Gun Violence. That attracts buyers who would fail a check.“You’d have to assume that if you are a prohibited purchaser, you are aware of that loophole, and that’s how you’re going to get a gun,” Ms. Brown said.While no one knows for sure how many of the country’s 20 million people with felony records illegally possess guns, by some estimates three in 10 of all American adults own firearms.Mr. Skaggs noted that Congress is now debating a proposal to eliminate loopholes allowing some purchases without a background check.A root cause of tragedies like Friday’s shooting, he added, is that people prohibited from owning firearms were able to obtain them to begin with.AdvertisementSupported byBy Catie EdmondsonWASHINGTON — The House this week is set to pass the first major gun control legislation in over two decades, with Democratic lawmakers expected to approve two measures strengthening background checks for all firearms sales.The last time the House put high-profile legislation expanding gun control laws to a vote was in 1994, when it passed the Federal Assault Weapons Ban and made it illegal to manufacture a number of semiautomatic weapons for civilian use. That legislation expired after a decade and was not renewed by a Republican-controlled Congress.But riding a new wave of urgency after a series of mass shootings — and the activism inspired by the school massacre in Parkland, Fla., last February in which 17 students and teachers were killed — House Democrats have pledged to take meaningful action on the issue, beginning with the twin bills.Here’s what you need to know about the measures and their odds in the Senate.The Bipartisan Background Checks Act, which the House will take up on Wednesday, requires universal background checks, closing a loophole for buyers at gun shows and online. The legislation, sponsored by Representative Mike Thompson, Democrat of California and the chairman of the House Gun Violence Prevention Task Force, also prohibits firearms transfers by a person who is not a licensed dealer. There are a number of exceptions, though, such as a family member giving a firearm as a gift, or lending a gun to someone in imminent danger.The second piece of legislation, the Enhanced Background Checks Act, will be voted on Thursday. Sponsored by Representative James E. Clyburn of South Carolina, the majority whip, the bill seeks to extend the initial background check review period to 10 days from three.Under federal law, the F.B.I. has three business days to perform its review and determine whether there is sufficient evidence to deny a purchase. If it is unable to do so, on the fourth day, the customer can return to the dealer and buy a gun. That loophole allowed Dylann S. Roof, the man who killed nine people at a historically black church in Charleston, S.C., in 2015, to purchase a .45-caliber handgun even though he had previously admitted to drug possession, which should have barred him from legally obtaining the weapon.A vast majority of guns used in 19 recent mass shootings — including those in Newtown, Conn.; San Bernardino, Calif.; and Las Vegas — were bought legally and after the gunman passed a federal background check. At least nine attackers had criminal histories or documented mental health problems that did not prevent them from obtaining their weapons.“The new gun control restrictions currently being considered by the Democratic majority in H.R. 8 would not have prevented my shooting,” Representative Steve Scalise of Louisiana, the Republican whip, said of the Bipartisan Background Checks Act. Mr. Scalise was gravely wounded in 2017 when a gunman fired on members of the Republican congressional baseball team while they were practicing in Virginia.But gun control advocates have praised the measures as a meaningful step toward change, and described the legislation as a necessary foundation for future work. Last year, the existing background check system identified and denied 88,000 gun sales to prohibited buyers including criminals and domestic abusers, according to Mr. Thompson’s office — but those same people are currently able to make purchases at gun shows or online.“We have fairly weak gun laws and we have loopholes that make it easy to have the levels of gun violence that we have right now, and we certainly have to do more to address it,” said Robin Lloyd, the managing director of the Giffords Law Center to Prevent Gun Violence. “But it is a critical first step.”The bills introduced by House Democrats closely mirror the last major attempt in the Senate to pass a gun control measure. Efforts led by Senator Patrick J. Toomey, Republican of Pennsylvania, and Senator Joe Manchin III, Democrat of West Virginia, to require background checks at gun shows and online failed in the Democratic-led Senate in 2013 and again in the Republican-led Senate in 2015.Otherwise, in the last two decades, most firearms legislation taken up by Congress has aimed to relax gun laws, such as attempts in the House and Senate to pass a concealed-carry reciprocity law allowing a person permitted to carry a concealed weapon in one state to carry it in every state.AdvertisementSupported byGovernments that want to curb gun violence frequently offer bounties for turning in weapons. New Zealand and Washington State are among the latest. But buybacks have a mixed record. By Adeel HassanWhen the New Zealand government announced on Thursday that it would ban military-style semiautomatic weapons and high-capacity ammunition magazines, a critical element of the new policy was a plan for the government to buy back the newly banned weapons from private owners.Gun buyback programs have often been mounted in American cities large and small that wanted to reduce gun violence and crime. Washington State just completed one on Monday specifically for bump stocks — accessory devices that make ordinary guns capable of very rapid fire. A federal ban on bump stocks takes effect on Tuesday.The state had set aside $150,000 for the buyback program, which gave Washington residents a $150 voucher for each bump stock they turned in. All 1,000 vouchers were exhausted before the Monday deadline. But there are up to 500,000 bump stocks in the United States — and therein lies the problem. Buyback programs are a relatively easy step for states and localities to try, since they are voluntary and generally require no legislation. But taking a few hundred or even a few thousand weapons out of circulation barely dents the national nonmilitary supply of 300 million firearms — nearly one for every citizen — and gun manufacturers have been adding about eight million more a year, according to the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives. Moreover, the guns that are turned in tend to be the least likely ones to be used in violent crime. And there is little or nothing to stop guns from flowing back into a community from out of town or out of state. “The people who are highest-risk don’t participate, like young males,” said Jon Vernick of the Johns Hopkins Center for Gun Policy and Research in Baltimore. “The highest-risk guns, the newer, higher-caliber weapons and semiautomatics are not what’s collected. You get a disproportionate number of revolvers and broken guns.” Mr. Vernick said the story may be different with buybacks aimed at very specific items like bump stocks, which have not yet been widely studied.Though removing a gun from a household can make that household safer, studies by Johns Hopkins researchers and others have found that buybacks have little impact on gun violence rates in the community as a whole.When the bounty offered for each weapon is low, few people take part. But raising it to attract more guns can have unintended consequences. Baltimore, one of the first American cities to offer a buyback in 1974, tried another in December, offering $25 to any city resident who brought in a high-capacity magazine. But observers quickly spotted that many high-capacity magazines could be bought online for $9 to $15, and then turned in to the city for a tidy profit. Oakland, Calif., had a similar problem with a buyback program in 2008.“If you want to have lots of guns, you raise the incentive,” Mr. Vernick said. “There’s a risk of raising the price too high, and people bringing in cheap, broken guns and using the money to trade up.”After 35 people died in a mass shooting in Australia in 1996, the country undertook a sweeping nationwide program with buybacks, registration requirements and outright bans. The government spent 500 million Australian dollars ($395 million) to collect and destroy about 640,000 guns — roughly one-third of all the guns in the country. Since then, rates of gun violence and gun suicides have tumbled, and there have been no mass shootings in the country.Prime Minister Jacinda Ardern of New Zealand pointed to Australia’s success as an inspiration for her plans. When Congress enacted a federal ban on assault weapons and large-capacity magazines in 1994, there was no national, federally financed gun buyback program like Australia’s, though some local governments held buybacks. The ban was riddled with loopholes, most notably exempting weapons manufactured before the law took effect, so it left more than 1.5 million assault weapons in legal circulation, and owners had little incentive to turn them in. The ban expired after 10 years, and a study afterward found that it had only a limited impact on gun crime. AdvertisementSupported byBy Ashley Southall[What you need to know to start the day: Get New York Today in your inbox.]President Trump, his eldest son, and his former lawyer, Michael D. Cohen, were among a roster of rich and powerful people who received gun licenses from the New York Police Department in return for special favors, a former lieutenant has claimed in court papers.The former lieutenant, Paul Dean, said the men received permits to carry guns in New York City without the proper paperwork after donating to two charities with close ties to the department. They were among a list of other well-connected people who Mr. Dean said benefited from a “systematic culture of corruption” that stretched from the department’s gun licensing division to the upper echelons of the department.The police commissioner, James P. O’Neill, said the allegations by Mr. Dean, who has pleaded guilty to approving gun licenses in exchange for bribes while he was the second-in-command of the department’s licensing division, are “highly suspect.”“These claims were investigated thoroughly by our I.A.B. — internal affairs — the F.B.I.’s public corruption unit and overseen by federal prosecutors,” Mr. O’Neill said on Thursday, a day after Mr. Dean made the allegations. “These investigations found no credible basis to charge any other individuals.”Mr. Trump told The Washington Times in 2012 that he had a concealed-carry permit and two semiautomatic pistols. Four years later, he told a French magazine that he “always” carries a firearm.The Police Department does not disclose the names of gun license holders and would not confirm whether the president, his son and former lawyer still have valid licenses to carry firearms. The White House referred questions to Mr. Trump’s outside counsel, and the Trump Organization declined to comment.Mr. Cohen, who pleaded guilty to federal charges that he lied to Congress about negotiations to build a Trump tower in Russia, now has a felony conviction and would be prohibited by state and federal law from having a gun. Lanny J. Davis, Mr. Cohen’s lawyer, said he could not comment because he had no knowledge of Mr. Dean’s claims.Mr. Dean was  arrested in 2017 on charges he accepted gifts and favors from middlemen in exchange for gun permits that are difficult to obtain; he ultimately pleaded guilty to bribery. The others arrested included Robert Espinel, David Villanueva and Richard Ochetal.The list of names was included among court papers that Mr. Dean filed ahead of his sentencing later this month. He said he had hoped his cooperation would lead prosecutors to recommend a lighter sentence. But he faces up to five years in prison after prosecutors deemed the information “insubstantial.”The list also includes John Catsimatidis, a billionaire businessman and radio host; Thomas Mottola, the former chief executive of Sony; and the actor Tracy Morgan.Mr. Dean, 46, said that the quid-pro-quo culture extended to former police commissioner, Raymond W. Kelly, who directed him to issue a gun license to the crown prince of Jordan so that a city police detective stationed in the Middle Eastern country could carry a firearm there. Mr. Kelly could not be reached for comment.Mr. Dean said most of the suspect gun licenses were ordered by his boss, Deputy Inspector Michael Endall, who was transferred to the division in 2008 to be “a point of contact for anyone needing help to get gun licenses, particularly those people connected with the police unions, the Police Athletic League or the N.Y.C. Police Foundation,” Mr. Dean said. Reached by telephone, Mr. Endall declined to comment.Frederick J. Watts, the executive director of the Police Athletic League, said the nonprofit operates independently of the Police Department. “We have no role in who gets gun licenses; that is all up to the N.Y.P.D.,” he said.A spokesman for the New York City Police Foundation said Mr. Dean’s allegation “has nothing to do with our work.”Mr. Endall took over as the gun licensing division’s commanding officer in August 2014. Mr. Dean said the current deputy commissioner for counterterrorism, John J. Miller, later attended a meeting during which William J. Bratton, then the newly appointed commissioner, asked Mr. Endall to stay on with the new administration to continue the “current ‘favor’ system for retirees and donors.”Mr. Bratton did not respond to a request for comment on Thursday. Mr. Miller said the meeting never happened.“Everyone he’s referred to there has had their pistol licenses for between 10, 25 and 40 years,” Mr. Miller said. “So I think there’s a lot more fluff in that document than there is facts.”A woman who frequented Police Headquarters with Orthodox Jewish clients had ties to the mayor, Mr. Dean said Mr. Endall told him. “This person takes care of Mayor De Blasio, and in return we are supposed to take care of this person,” Mr. Dean recalled his supervisor saying.At least once, a tainted license had fatal consequences, Mr. Dean said. Mr. Endall, he said, ordered him to return a gun license to a businessman known as the “Cherry King,” who later fatally shot himself in the head during a raid on his plant.Mr. O’Neill said that Mr. Endall was disciplined before he retired in 2017. He did not say what the punishment was, although Mr. Endall was allowed to keep a lucrative pension.Officials could not say whether the licenses of any people named by Mr. Dean had been revoked.The 2017 arrests prompted an overhaul of the gun licensing division, including the replacement of top commanders and a reorganization that added oversight. Applications are now required to be submitted online, and each step of the licensing process is handled by different people — and recorded in an electronic database, officials said.“I have complete confidence in the leadership down at the gun licensing division,” Mr. O’Neill said.AdvertisementSupported byBy Tiffany HsuDick’s Sporting Goods, one of the largest firearms retailers in the United States, is moving further away from selling guns, even as the shift takes a toll on its earnings.On Tuesday, Dick’s said that it would strip firearms and other hunting products from 125 of its stores and replace the merchandise with batting cages, ski apparel and other sports gear. If the switch is successful, as it was at 10 stores where it was tested starting in the fall, it will be expanded, the company said.The latest move to scale back gun sales is becoming a familiar one for the company and its chief executive, Edward Stack.Last year, after 17 people were killed in a shooting in Parkland, Fla., Mr. Stack learned that the suspect, Nikolas Cruz, once bought a gun from Dick’s. That firearm was not used in the attack, but Mr. Stack realized it could have been.Shaken by the link, Mr. Stack, a longtime gun owner, introduced measures that made it harder to buy firearms at Dick’s stores, and he pressed Congress to adopt gun-safety measures. He aligned himself with gun-control activists; was shunned by gun sellers, buyers and firearms industry employees; and became one of the most cited names in a gun debate increasingly crowded with corporate voices.He appeared at conferences with Laurence D. Fink, the chief executive of BlackRock; Mark Bertolini, a former chief executive of Aetna; and other executives with strong opinions on gun control. In the process, Mr. Stack became a model for business leaders wading into contentious social issues.But  his outspoken approach may have put pressure on his company, which sells much more than guns. In announcing its earnings on Tuesday, Dick’s said adjusted same-store sales fell 3.1 percent in the 12 months that ended Feb. 2 from the comparable period a year earlier.In the fourth quarter, which included the holiday shopping season, adjusted same-store sales were down 2.2 percent. Net income for the quarter fell to $102.6 million, or $1.07 a share, from $116 million, or $1.11 a share in the year-earlier period.Public reaction to the policies Dick’s introduced after the Parkland shooting was a “meaningful driver” in the declines, Mr. Stack said in a conference call with analysts on Tuesday. Intensifying competition from Amazon was another, analysts said.The company, which is based in the Pittsburgh area, said it expected its sales for this year to range from flat to a 2 percent increase.In trading on Tuesday, Dick’s shares fell 11 percent from the previous close. But the stock, adjusted for dividends, is up more than 10 percent since Mr. Stack decided to remove AR-15-style and other semiautomatic rifles from the company’s Field & Stream stores soon after the Parkland shooting. Stores operating under the Dick’s logo had already stopped selling such weapons after the 2012 shooting at Sandy Hook Elementary School in Newtown, Conn., in which 26 people, including 20 children, were killed.Both chains stopped selling guns and ammunition to customers younger than 21 last year. The company includes 729 Dick’s Stores, 94 Golf Galaxy stores and 35 Field & Stream stores.Mr. Stack, whose father started Dick’s in 1948, said in a recent interview that the company had “been in the gun business basically since inception.” Gun demand broadly, he said, is “under pressure” and is “going to continue to be under pressure.”Firearm sales, according to an estimate from the Small Arms Analytics & Forecasting research firm, slumped 12.4 percent in February from a year earlier, to 1.1 million units.The drop “certainly appears to validate the ongoing challenging market conditions,” James Debney, the chief executive of American Outdoor Brands, said this month. The company, which owns the Smith & Wesson firearms brand, announced a $5.7 million loss in its third quarter, causing its stock to plunge.Interest in hunting has been on a steady decline in the United States for decades. Mr. Stack said in the interview that the hunting category had “deteriorated” for Dick’s in recent years.In the 10 stores where hunting products were not selling well and were replaced with other merchandise, sales improved during the test, Mr. Stack said on the call on Tuesday. If the expanded trial “goes as well as expected, we’d probably take another batch of stores next year,” he said.Mr. Stack said the shift was meant to make Dick’s stores more “productive.” But Camilla Yanushevsky, an analyst with the research firm CFRA, said that phasing out hunting products was “largely a sign of solidarity with Parkland victims, as well as a form of social activism.”The Parkland shooting inspired other companies to embrace gun safety activism.Delta Air Lines, MetLife and  others cut ties with the National Rifle Association after the attack. Citigroup and Bank of America placed restrictions on gun industry clients. In November, a group of pension funds and other investors circulated a list of guidelines for gun companies with the goal of improving transparency and safety.“It is up to the private sector to continue this conversation,” Mr. Stack said in the interview, “however slowly it moves.”But gun rights advocates have resisted corporate involvement in their cause.Months ago, American Outdoor Brands shareholders unexpectedly won a vote that asked the company to address the risks associated with its products and gun violence. Last month, the company wrote in response that its “reputation as a strong defender of the Second Amendment is not worth risking for a vague goal of improving the company’s reputation among noncustomers or special interest groups with an anti-Second Amendment agenda.”Some of Dick’s 45,000 employees felt the same about Mr. Stack’s decision to restrict gun sales, with 62 resigning over the last year, he said. The National Shooting Sports Foundation voted to expel Dick’s from its membership. Manufacturers like O. F. Mossberg & Sons stopped selling to the chain, although Mr. Stack said Dick’s still had access to Mossberg products through distributors.Mr. Stack also said he had received some threats and had increased security measures meant to protect him and the company. But he said he had no plans to curb his gun-safety efforts.He recently signed an open letter supporting universal background-check legislation that last month became the first major gun control measure in decades to pass the House. Along with executives from Levi Strauss and RXR Realty, he became one of the first members of a business council organized by Everytown for Gun Safety, a major gun safety advocacy group. He is looking into smart gun technology now being developed, calling it “helpful from a gun violence standpoint.”“People in the gun business are not terribly happy with us,” he said. “They said we were toxic, which is fine with us; we’re not going to change the way we’re going.”Follow Tiffany Hsu on Twitter: @tiffkhsu.AdvertisementSupported byBy Matthew HaagA Delta Air Lines passenger carried a loaded gun by accident through airport security in Atlanta earlier this month and took it on a flight to Japan, officials with the Transportation Security Administration said.The passenger later discovered the firearm and alerted the authorities, who met the plane when it landed on Jan. 3 in Tokyo, officials said. The gun was taken through a T.S.A. checkpoint at Hartsfield-Jackson International Airport in Atlanta on Jan. 2, the 11th day of the partial federal government shutdown, as concerns were growing that security agents, who are working without pay, might not show up.But a T.S.A. spokesman, Michael Bilello, insisted on Monday that the shutdown was not to blame for the security breach and that the gun was undetected because “standard procedures were not followed.” About five percent of T.S.A. employees nationwide did not report to work on the day of the flight, Wednesday, Jan. 2, which was the identical rate of unscheduled absences on Wednesday, Jan. 3, 2018, Mr. Bilello said.He said the agency did not release staffing rates for individual airports and would not specify what “standard procedures” were not observed. There are 51,000 airport security agents nationwide.“There was not a staffing issue as some are speculating or alluding to,” Mr. Bilello said in an email on Monday. “T.S.A. will hold those responsible appropriately accountable.”The identity of the Delta passenger has not been released publicly, and a Delta spokesman on Monday referred questions to the T.S.A. Japanese transportation officials have said that the passenger, who was female, returned to the United States.The T.S.A. said that 7.6 percent of employees had unscheduled absences on Monday morning, more than double the rate from the year before. The Atlanta airport was one of two airports in the country to implement “contingency plans” on Monday because of absences and other issues.Across the United States, thousands of guns are confiscated on average every year at airport security or in checked luggage. In 2017, for instance, 3,957 firearms were recovered in carry-on bags at American airports and 84 percent of them were loaded, the T.S.A. said.More than 290 weapons had been discovered in 2018 through the beginning of November in Atlanta, the busiest airport in the country, according to the Justice Department. That number was an 18-point increase from the total recovered in all of 2017, when the Atlanta airport led the country with the most firearms discovered at 245, the department said.Travelers with guns without a firearm license will be arrested, the T.S.A. said, while anyone discovered with a gun can also face a fine of up to $13,000 per violation. Mr. Bilello said the Delta passenger had been “fully cooperative with authorities.”Hisako Ueno contributed reporting.AdvertisementSupported byBy Catie EdmondsonWASHINGTON — The House voted Thursday to extend the time allotted for the F.B.I. to conduct background checks for gun purchasers flagged by the national instant check system, the second major gun control bill to clear the chamber this week after two decades of inaction.Democratic leaders also succeeded in quelling a small rebellion among freshman Democrats from Republican-leaning districts, persuading them to oppose a politically freighted Republican procedural motion after they backed a similar motion on Wednesday.The 228-to-198 vote aims to extend the background check review period for gun purchasers to 10 days. Currently, the F.B.I. must perform its review and determine whether there is sufficient evidence to deny a purchase in three business days. If it cannot complete the review within that time, a buyer may return to the dealer on the fourth day to purchase a firearm.That provision in current law allowed Dylann S. Roof to purchase a handgun and kill nine people at a historic black church in Charleston, S.C., in 2015, even though he should have been denied his firearm.“Let’s give the F.B.I., the authorities, enough time to do their job and save lives,” Representative James E. Clyburn of South Carolina, the majority whip and the bill’s sponsor, implored his colleagues from the House floor.Both gun control bills that cleared the House this week face dim prospects in the Senate, but they were cause for celebration for the gun-control activists that mobilized last year after a series of horrific mass shootings.While Thursday’s bill was expected to easily clear the Democrat-controlled chamber, a dose of drama was added after House Republicans staged a successful ambush during the vote on the first gun control measure on Wednesday.In an attempt to divide Democrats and draw out vulnerable swing-district members, Republicans offered a provision that would require the F.B.I. to alert Immigration and Customs Enforcement if an undocumented immigrant tried to obtain a firearm. Twenty-six Democrats broke party lines to support the measure, catching Democratic leadership caught off guard.House Republicans tried a repeat ambush on Thursday, surprising Democrats with a last-minute motion to exempt victims of domestic abuse from the new 10-day waiting period. This time, following strict marching orders from Speaker Nancy Pelosi, the motion failed, with only two Democrats, Representatives Jeff Van Drew of New Jersey and Collin C. Peterson of Minnesota, voting for the measure.“Vote no, just vote no, because the fact is a vote yes is to give leverage to the other side and surrender leverage on the floor of the House,” Ms. Pelosi told reporters on Thursday.At a meeting of House Democrats before the vote, Representative Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez of New York implored moderates to vote against the Republican-led motions and, in an implicit threat, added that she would make it clear to liberal activists which members supported the Republican measures, according to officials in the room.But some moderate freshmen, including Representative Xochitl Torres Small of New Mexico, stood up and explained how difficult the votes have been for them.House Republicans have sought to weaponize the procedural motion, using politically fraught measures to test the new Democrats’ resolve. The measures rarely hold the force of law, but a no vote even on a procedural motion could show up in a 30-second attack ad next year. Republicans succeeded in attaching a resolution condemning anti-Semitism and the boycott-Israel movement to a bill designed to halt American aid to Saudi Arabia’s war in Yemen after even Democratic leaders gave up on opposing it.“All they want to do is feed red meat to their base,” Representative Veronica Escobar, Democrat of Texas, said of House Republicans. “I’m hoping that colleagues of mine will see it that way and understand that these procedural motions — even the best-worded procedural motion — has not had the chance to go through the process” of committee consideration.Amid concern that some Democrats will continue to break away on tough votes, some House leaders are weighing revising the rules to require Republicans to give them more notice on the content of procedural motions.Representative Joe Cunningham, Democrat of South Carolina, who has voted for Republican-backed motions, played down their importance on Thursday.“These little motions and minor bills should not take attention away from the fact that progress is being made to keep people safe,” said Mr. Cunningham, one of the co-sponsors of Mr. Clyburn’s gun control bill.Ms. Pelosi signaled that she was not keen to change the rules, but added that it could be a topic for consideration by a select committee studying potential changes to “modernize” the House.“I am a big believer in respecting the whole House and the rights of the minority to have their say,” Ms. Pelosi told reporters.The “Charleston loophole” bill did show some of the old divisions that have plagued Democrats in the past over gun control. Seven Democrats voted no, including freshmen Anthony Brindisi of New York, Jared Golden of Maine, Kendra Horn of Oklahoma, Ben McAdams of Utah and Ms. Torres Small of New Mexico, all of whom won Republican districts in November.Only three Republicans voted yes.AdvertisementSupported bynews analysisThe country’s leaders want a solution, not just the problem, to become a global phenomenon.By Damien CaveMr. Cave is the Australia bureau chief for The New York Times.CHRISTCHURCH, New Zealand — The ad hoc memorial at the police cordon spread out across a wide area. Within a few hours of the terrorist attack that stole the lives of 50 people at two mosques here, there was a mountain of flowers and handwritten messages filled with anguish.“This is your home and you should have been safe here.”“Our love and prayers and sympathy are with you.”“Christchurch, Christchurch, what will we do?”The memorial was the first thing I saw when I arrived outside the first mosque the gunman targeted. Like many others, I snapped a few photos of the memorial and posted one to Instagram. But then immediately, I had a moment of dйjа vu. I’d taken a very similar set of pictures in 2016 when I was covering the aftermath of the Pulse nightclub shooting in Orlando, Fla.The Pulse attack had seemed like such an American nightmare — a mass shooting driven by hate — and now that nightmare had found its way to the other side of the world, to a laid-back country where violence is so rare that there isn’t even any airport security when you fly to regional hubs. From the vantage point of this city of 375,000, the signature American exports of our age were not freedom and Hollywood fantasy but rather a cocktail of gun culture, white supremacy and Facebook, where the killer live-streamed the attack with a camera that gave it the look of an American video game.And while the causes have spread along with Instagrammable memorials, the question emerging here a week later is whether potential solutions can be globalized too.Prime Minister Jacinda Ardern is doing what she can to lead the way. She announced a ban on military-style assault rifles and ammunition Thursday. She has hammered social media companies for allowing and amplifying extremism. She even went to a high school this week, which lost two of its students in the attack, and told the children they need to fight prejudice.“Let New Zealand be a place where there is no tolerance for racism,” she said. “That’s something we can all do.”And yet, it’s hard to see how places like New Zealand can ever feel safe without some changes internationally. “We need to understand American laws because they affect us,” one commentator said on Radio New Zealand this week.Indeed the lack of legislative effort by American lawmakers on the issues that helped spawn the Christchurch attack — guns, racism and tech platforms — is no longer just a frustration in the United States. Now it wounds the world.There’s hard work to be done for that to change. The solution is not praying for victims or praising Ms. Ardern on Twitter. What New Zealanders want is for Americans to learn from others, for globalization to go the other way, even if it means limitations on fundamental U.S. of A. freedoms.On guns, countries like New Zealand have less to confront: Of the 3.9 million New Zealanders of gun-licensing age, 238,000 — just 6 percent — have a firearm license, according to the website GunPolicy.org. In the United States, three in 10 adults say they own a firearm.Tech companies are another challenge. Despite a growing body of research showing that the algorithms of YouTube, Facebook and other social media platforms push people further into violent extremism, getting those companies and their employees to dial back their self-regard and shift their priorities may be as hard as persuading gun owners to give up their AR-15s.And let’s be honest: Those are the easy things to fix compared with racism and white supremacy.Some Muslims in Christchurch are hoping that the unity of the community and New Zealand officials will set a new standard.“If we can use what happened here to say enough is enough, if we can promote what we call in New Zealand ‘aroha,’” said Mustafa Farouk, president of the Federation of Islamic Associations of New Zealand, using the Maori word for love, “maybe the people behind these shootings will change.”But according to others, the changes will need to become more common, below the ranks of public figures.Here in Christchurch, one of the first people I contacted when I arrived was Kumar Yogeeswaran, a senior lecturer in psychology at the University of Canterbury who studies diversity and received his Ph.D. from the University of Massachusetts.We discussed the deep societal problem of not just violent racism but also the casual racism that feeds it. He said many of his nonwhite students in Christchurch have come to him with stories of ethnic slurs hurled at them or colleagues at work mocking their accents. In the aftermath of the attacks, he said some students have heard white New Zealanders express anti-immigrant sentiments, asking why they’re here and why they’ve come.“When an earthquake hits, the whole community grieves together,” Mr. Yogeeswaran said. A mass shooting that killed mostly immigrants — all of them Muslim — has not quite done the same, some New Zealanders said, noting that the unaffected have been quicker to move on while others fear additional violence from extremists across the ideological spectrum.In 2008, I wrote an article about Derek Black, who was then trying to run for local office in Florida as a white supremacist. He later renounced those views, and we were in touch this past week, emailing a bit about how New Zealand and the world could accelerate and expand the shift he made from hate to inclusion.“When Ardern says that the people who were attacked ‘are us,’ that has to become a sentiment that does not sound surprising or untrue to people,” he said. “This is a long process of people, particularly white people, redefining their in-groups and national identity.”Mr. Black thinks the only way to do this is for people not to isolate themselves.The memorials I saw were perhaps a baby step in that direction, our shared emotions made visible in lilies and words that linger.But some people did not stop there. On Thursday, I met Michael Tarren-Sweeney, a professor of child and family psychology, as he was leaving the funeral of Junaid Ismail, one of the victims. Mr. Tarren-Sweeney told me he worked with Mr. Ismail’s sister, and when I shook his hand he had dirt on it from participating in the Muslim tradition of burial, in which mourners toss handfuls of earth into the grave.Just behind him, leaning against a concrete pole at the cemetery’s edge, was Caitlin Phillips. “I’m just paying my respects,” she said. She had an iPhone in her hand. Had she seen news of the funerals on social media? Had she gone to the memorials?“No, I live around the corner,” she said. “I just wanted to come because I’ve lived here 18 years, all my life, and I’ve never seen anything so wrong.”The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. We’d like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips. And here's our email: letters@nytimes.com.Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram.AdvertisementSupported byBy Shasta DarlingtonSГO PAULO, Brazil — President Jair Bolsonaro of Brazil signed a decree on Tuesday making it easier to buy guns and signaling he will follow through on his campaign promise to tackle the country’s epidemic of violence by arming the “good guys” and crushing violent drug gangs.Mr. Bolsonaro was sworn in on Jan. 1 after a decisive electoral victory last year that was bolstered by his vows to combat crime with an iron fist and reduce Brazil’s record-high murder rate. Simulating guns with his fingers at campaign rallies, he pledged to make it easier for the police to shoot suspects and to relax the country’s restrictive firearms law.Two weeks into his term, he took what he called a “first step” to those ends, to be followed by further congressional measures.“I signed this decree, created by many upstanding people, so that at this first moment, upstanding citizens can have peace inside their homes,” Mr. Bolsonaro said at a signing ceremony in the capital, Brasнlia.The presidential decree eliminates the requirement that applicants formally declare why they need a gun and have that argument approved by the police — a provision that is widely considered the most bureaucratic aspect of the country’s firearms regulations.Mr. Bolsonaro said the new rules remove the “discretionary” role played by the police, replacing it with a list of specific conditions that justify the “necessity” to own a gun. Those conditions include being responsible for a commercial or industrial establishment, being a gun collector or hunter, living in a rural area or living in a city with elevated crime rates — as the vast majority of Brazilians do.The decree also extends the registration renewal period to 10 years from five.Many other aspects of Brazil’s 2003 gun control law, the Disarmament Statute, remain unaltered. Applicants for gun ownership must be at least 25 years old, have no criminal history, provide proof of a steady job and fixed residence, pass a psychological test and have gun training. And it is still illegal to carry guns outside of homes and places of work.“He is fulfilling a campaign pledge which is in line with his 27 years in Congress,” said Robert Muggah, research director at the Igarapй Institute, which focuses on security issues. “You can be sure we’ll see additional measures in the coming year.”A former army captain, Mr. Bolsonaro was for many years a marginal, far-right voice in Brazil’s Congress, best known for his verbal attacks against women, gay people and black people before persuading voters in the 2018 presidential election that he was the best candidate to take on entrenched political corruption and soaring violence.In 2017, Brazil set a new murder record of 30.8 per 100,000 people, according to the Brazilian Forum of Public Security, a research organization. In comparison, the United States had 5.3 homicides per 100,000 people in 2017 — the most recent year for which data are available — and Mexico had a murder rate of 25 per 100,000 people in 2017.The euphoria surrounding Mr. Bolsonaro’s rise in the polls prompted many Brazilians to sign up for gun training even before he won the election in October, and fueled a spike in the share price of the Brazilian gun manufacturer Taurus.Though Tuesday’s announcement will delight many of Mr. Bolsonaro’s supporters, and despite anger over the widespread violence, most Brazilians still favor strict regulation of guns. According to a poll conducted last month, 61 percent think civilian gun ownership should be banned.A powerful group of lawmakers in Congress, sometimes called the “bullet lobby,” has vowed to further relax regulations and tackle restrictions on carrying guns. But research groups have argued that greater access to guns has historically fueled violence.“Instead of doubling down on dismantling firearm legislation, we would be better off enforcing the existing rules,” said Mr. Muggah. “By extending the registration period, you are expanding the likelihood of guns finding their way to the streets.”AdvertisementSupported byOther nations’ leaders learn from experience. But Congress and President Trump refuse to act on guns.By Nicholas KristofOpinion ColumnistWhen a terrorist massacred 50 people at two New Zealand mosques last week, Prime Minister Jacinda Ardern immediately grasped the nettle. “I can tell you one thing right now,” she told a news conference. “Our gun laws will change.”That’s what effective leadership looks like. New Zealand’s cabinet has now agreed in principle to overhaul those laws, experts are reviewing ways to make the country safer from firearms and, Ardern promised, “within 10 days of this horrific act of terrorism, we will have announced reforms.”Contrast that with the United States, where just since 1970, more Americans have died from guns (1.45 million, including murders, suicides and accidents) than died in all the wars in American history (1.4 million). More Americans die from guns every 10 weeks than died in the entire Afghanistan and Iraq wars combined, yet we still don’t have gun safety rules as rigorous as New Zealand’s even before the mosques were attacked.The N.R.A. (not to be confused with the vast majority of gun owners) will turn to its old smoke-and-mirrors standby, arguing that the killer’s hate, not his guns and bullets, were the real problem.But while it’s true that white supremacy is deadly and needs to be confronted — something our vote-obsessed president blindly ignores — without the weapons of mass murder, 50 New Zealand worshipers would still be alive; 17 Parkland, Fla., schoolchildren and staff members would still be alive; nine Charleston, S.C., churchgoers would still be alive; 11 Pittsburgh congregants would still be alive; 58 Las Vegas concertgoers would still be alive; 26 Newtown, Conn., first graders and adults would. …Why can’t leaders in America learn from experience, the way leaders in other countries do? After a massacre in Australia in 1996, the government there took far-reaching action to tighten gun policy. In contrast, every day in America, another hundred people die from gun violence and 300 more are injured — and our president and Congress do nothing.[Follow Nicholas Kristof as he travels around the United States and the world, shedding light on crises and hailing unsung heroes. For a behind-the-scenes look at Nick’s gritty journalism, sign up for his newsletter.]In fairness, liberals have often been unhelpful, broadcasting their own ignorance about the firearms they propose to regulate, or speaking blithely of banning guns or of “gun control” in ways that drive responsible gun owners into the arms of the N.R.A. I suggest dropping references to “gun control” and instead speaking of “gun safety.”It’s also true that there are no simple solutions. The U.S. now has more guns than people, so criminals have a steady supply — and so do ordinary Americans at a time when suicides are at a 30-year high.But gun laws do make a difference. When Connecticut tightened licensing laws in 1995, firearm homicide rates dropped by 40 percent. And when Missouri eased gun laws in 2007, gun homicide rates surged by 25 percent.Polls show some measures have broad backing. For starters, more than 90 percent even of gun owners support universal background checks to ensure that people are legally allowed to own a gun before they buy one.Astonishingly, about 22 percent of guns in the U.S. are still acquired without a background check. In parts of the U.S., you need a more thorough background check to adopt a dog than to acquire a semiautomatic AR-15 weapon.The House passed a bill last month to require universal background checks, but it has little chance in the Senate this year.Another basic step: Keep guns out of the hands of people shown to present a danger to themselves or others, such as when they are suicidal or threatening a domestic partner. Fourteen states have such “red flag” laws, and similar legislation is before Congress to achieve something similar at a national level.We should likewise invest more in “smart guns” that can be fired only by an authorized person; it’s outrageous that my phone requires a pin or fingerprint but that an AR-15 doesn’t. That would help with the estimated 200,000 guns stolen each year.The regulatory model to follow is automobiles. We haven’t outlawed cars, but we have required safety modifications (seatbelts, airbags) and limited access to them (licenses, bans after drunken driving) in ways that have sharply reduced the fatality rate per miles driven.If we took this approach to guns, many Americans would still die. But experts have suggested to me that we could plausibly reduce gun deaths by about one-third, saving 13,000 lives a year.Slowly, the tide of public opinion is shifting. The N.R.A.’s extremism is turning some people off, and it seems on the defensive, so eventually we may follow New Zealand. But how many more people will die before the president and Congress act?AdvertisementSupported byBy Mihir ZaveriPeople under 21 are no longer able to buy semiautomatic assault rifles in Washington as of Jan 1. It is the first of several new state measures intended to reduce gun violence. The National Rifle Association has already filed suit.Previously, state law barred the assault weapons’ sale to those under 18. The new rules, approved by voters in a ballot initiative in November, come alongside dozens of moves by other states to strengthen gun control regulations in the absence of federal action.“It is a meaningful step in the right direction,” said Christian Heyne, legislative director at the Coalition to Stop Gun Violence, on Washington’s initiative. “Gun violence on the whole is such a complex problem. We need to have complex solutions, comprehensive solutions. This is a part of that conversation.”In addition to the age restrictions, Washington’s new rules state that gun dealers must wait 10 days before delivering semiautomatic assault rifles they sell. That is designed, in part, to prevent impulsive action. The rules also require anyone buying a semiautomatic assault rifle to have completed a gun safety training in the last five years. The measure also imposes criminal penalties for unsafe gun storage, and requires more extensive background checks for purchases of the assault weapons.Most of the new rules take effect in July.“Every component is extremely important,” said Renee Hopkins, chief executive of the Alliance for Gun Responsibility, the group that sponsored the ballot initiative. “This package really looks to reduce suicide, reduce accidental shootings and also reduce everyday gun violence, interpersonal gun violence, that we see playing out.”The Nov. 6 ballot initiative passed with more than 59 percent of the vote.According to the Giffords Law Center to Prevent Gun Violence, state legislatures in 2018 passed 69 gun control measures, more than any other year since the Newtown, Conn., massacre in 2012, and more than three times the number passed in 2017. They included adding or improving state background checks, increasing regulations for concealed firearms and restricting firearm use for domestic abusers.Opponents of Washington’s ballot initiative said its provisions to safely store guns would make them “unavailable” for self-defense. It also said that banning sale of semiautomatic assault rifles to 18- to 20-year-olds “would leave already vulnerable segments of the population defenseless to attack.” The N.R.A. and the Second Amendment Foundation have filed a lawsuit saying that the age restrictions violate the Constitution.But gun control groups say public pressure has been mounting in response to recent high-profile mass shootings, including the slaughter at a country musical festival in Las Vegas that left 58 people dead and hundreds wounded in October 2017; and multiple shootings in 2018 at schools around the country, particularly at Marjory Stoneman Douglas High School in Parkland, Fla. In that shooting, a 19-year-old man killed 17 people with an AR-15 semiautomatic rifle in February.Mr. Heyne said Washington’s move, while not unique, is a “bellwether” for what could happen in the rest of the country.Gun-related deaths are increasing. The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention reported in December that the nearly 40,000 people who died from firearms injuries in the United States in 2017 was more than any other year since at least 1968. Nearly two-thirds of those deaths were suicides. The rate of gun deaths also increased to 12 deaths for every 100,000 people, the highest since the mid-1990s.Some states like California and Connecticut have near-total bans on assault weapons, according to the Giffords Law Center. Assault weapons, generally thought to be more lethal, have been used in deadly mass shootings like those in Parkland, Las Vegas, Newtown and San Bernardino, Calif.A New York Times analysis published in February found that 173 people have been killed since 2007 in mass shootings involving AR-15s. Yet they don’t make up a large chunk of gun violence in America, Mr. Heyne said.Ms. Hopkins said that existing laws already ban the sale of handguns to those under 21, and that the age change for semiautomatic assault rifles seeks to make the law consistent for the different type of firearms.Gun control figured heavily in the 2018 election, as gun control groups outspent the N.R.A. Congress has generally failed to pass any meaningful legislation. A federal ban on the manufacture of certain “assault weapons” took effect in 1994. It expired in 2004.No attempts to reinstate the federal assault weapons ban have been successful. In December, the Trump administration banned bump stocks, attachments that enable semiautomatic rifles to fire in sustained, rapid bursts.Gun rights organizations have succeeded in blocking other proposals at the federal level. And they are vowing to fight the states as well.“The N.R.A. will fight to overturn this unconstitutional initiative,” Chris W. Cox, executive director of N.R.A.’s Institute for Legislative Action, said of the Washington law, when the lawsuit was announced. “We will not sit idly by while elitist anti-gun activists attempt to deny everyday Americans their fundamental right to self-defense.”The N.R.A. did not respond to a request for comment Wednesday after the law took effect.“The gun lobby is trying to thwart the will of nearly 60 percent of Washingtonian voters who supported common-sense gun reform in our state,” Bob Ferguson, the state attorney general, said in a statement Wednesday. “We were not surprised the gun lobby filed a lawsuit. I look forward to representing the people of the State of Washington in court against the N.R.A.”Follow Mihir Zaveri on Twitter: @MihirZaveri.AdvertisementSupported byBy Richard Pйrez-Peсa and Claire MosesThe Dutch police said on Tuesday that they were still considering terrorism as a motive for a deadly shooting on a tram in the city of Utrecht based partly on a note they discovered.The shooting on Monday, which left at least three people dead and seven injured, and an ensuing manhunt prompted heightened security and sent ripples of fear through the Netherlands. A 37-year-old immigrant from Turkey was arrested Monday night.People who know the suspect, Gokmen Tanis, and family members in Turkey quoted by news organizations there, had said on Monday that they believed the assault grew out of some kind of domestic dispute.But the police said they had so far found no links between Mr. Tanis and the three people killed on the tram.“Thus far, a terrorist motive is being strongly considered,” the national police said on Tuesday.“The reason for this, among other things, is a note found in the getaway car,” they said, without elaboration. “Other motives aren’t being ruled out. These are being investigated as well.”The shooting jarred a country where gun violence is rare, and where there has not been the kinds of major terrorist attacks that have rocked Belgium, Britain, France and Germany in recent years. It came just days after a gunman, thought to be a white nationalist, killed 50 people at two mosques in Christchurch, New Zealand, prompting fears of either copycat attacks against Muslims or retaliatory attacks by them.The police said on Tuesday that they had found a firearm when Mr. Tanis was arrested. They did not say what kind of gun it was, or whether it was the weapon used in the attack.Mr. Tanis had been arrested several times before and was facing a rape charge. People who knew him from the Kanaleneiland neighborhood of Utrecht, home to many immigrants from Turkey and Morocco, described him as erratic, troubled and aggressive.Bart Nitrauw, a spokesman for the local prosecutor’s office, said in a phone interview: “We can’t say anything about what was in the letter, just that it was one of the reasons for the suspicion of a terror motive — the letter in the car, and what we found at the place where the suspect was arrested.”“In this stage of the investigation, we think it was one shooter,” Mr. Nitrauw said.The Utrecht shooting took place around 10:30 a.m. near 24 October Square, and the gunman fled. The police said the theft of a car at gunpoint nearby was tied to the attack, but the details were unclear.Three people — a 19-year-old woman and two men, ages 28 and 49 — were killed in the attack, and seven others were injured, three of them seriously. Officials have not publicly identified any of the victims.Unsure of the motive, how many people were involved, or where the killer was, the authorities quickly ramped up security and raised the terrorist threat assessment in Utrecht Province to the highest level. For several hours, the tram service was shut down around Utrecht, people were told to remain indoors, schools were locked down and officers in body armor were deployed to police stations, airports and other key locations.In addition to Mr. Tanis, two men in their 20s were arrested on Monday in connection with the shooting, but the police acknowledged that it was not clear what role, if any, they may have played in it. They said on Tuesday that the men, whom they did not identify, were still in custody and were being questioned. Another man was arrested on Tuesday night.Patrick Kingsley contributed reporting.AdvertisementSupported byBy ReutersSYDNEY — New Zealand police are investigating whether a man who died from a stab wound in a standoff on Wednesday had any connection with the March 15 shooting attack on two mosques in Christchurch, which killed 50 people.National police commissioner Mike Bush said Christchurch police found several firearms in a search of a local property late Tuesday evening. At about 12.30 a.m. on Wednesday, they located a 54 year-old man sought in relation to the firearms in a stopped vehicle.Police negotiators spoke with the man over a number of hours and officers approached the vehicle at around 3.40 a.m. Bush said the man was found in the car critically injured with what appeared to be a stab wound. A knife was located in the vehicle.First aid was applied but the man died at the scene. No firearms were discovered inside the vehicle."A high priority investigation is underway to determine whether or not the deceased man posed a threat to the community. This will include further searches of Christchurch properties and interviews with family and associates," Bush said."At this time there is no evidence to suggest this person had any involvement in the attacks of 15 March, however this forms an important part of the investigation."AdvertisementSupported byBy Rick Rojas and Kristin Hussey[What you need to know to start the day: Get New York Today in your inbox.]The Connecticut Supreme Court dealt a major blow to the firearms industry on Thursday, clearing the way for a lawsuit against the companies that manufactured and sold the semiautomatic rifle used by the gunman in the massacre at Sandy Hook Elementary School.The lawsuit mounted a direct challenge to the immunity that Congress granted gun companies to shield them from litigation when their weapons are used in a crime. The ruling allows the case, brought by victims’ families, to maneuver around the federal shield, creating a potential opening to bring claims to trial and hold the companies, including Remington, which made the rifle, liable for the attack.The decision represents a significant development in the long-running battle between gun control advocates and the gun lobby. And it stands to have wider ramifications, experts said, by charting a possible legal road map for victims’ relatives and survivors from other mass shootings who want to sue gun companies.In the lawsuit, the families seized upon the marketing for the AR-15-style Bushmaster used in the 2012 attack, which invoked the violence of combat and used slogans like “Consider your man card reissued.”Lawyers for the families argued that those messages reflected a deliberate effort to appeal to troubled young men like Adam Lanza, the 20-year-old who charged into the elementary school and killed 26 people, including 20 first graders, in a spray of gunfire. The attack traumatized the nation and made Newtown, Conn., the small town where it happened, a rallying point in the broader debate over gun violence.In the 4-3 ruling, the justices agreed with a lower court judge’s decision to dismiss most of the claims raised by the families, but also found that the sweeping federal protections did not prevent the families from bringing a lawsuit based on wrongful marketing claims. The court ruled that the case can move ahead based on a state law regarding unfair trade practices.In the majority opinion, the justices wrote that “it falls to a jury to decide whether the promotional schemes alleged in the present case rise to the level of illegal trade practices and whether fault for the tragedy can be laid at their feet.”The families hailed the ruling as a victory. “I am thrilled and tremendously grateful,” said Nicole Hockley, whose 6-year-old son Dylan was killed in his first-grade classroom. “No one has blanket immunity. There are consequences. We want our day in court to see why they do this this way, and what needs to change.”Beyond the lawsuit against the gun companies, victims’ families have also had successes recently in lawsuits against Alex Jones, the far-right provocateur, who spread bogus claims about the shooting, including that the families were actors involved in a wider plot to confiscate firearms.The families sought legal action after they received death threats and were targeted for harassment.As for the decision issued Thursday, lawyers for Remington, as well as other gun companies named in the suit, did not immediately respond to requests for comment.“The majority’s decision today is at odds with all other state and federal appellate courts that have interpreted the scope’’ of the federal protections, the National Shooting Sports Foundation, a trade association representing the firearm industry, said in a statement.The families faced long odds as they pursued a novel strategy to find a route around the federal protections and will confront major hurdles as the case proceeds. Their hope was to bring the case to trial, which could force gun companies to turn over internal communications that they have fiercely fought to keep private and provide a revealing and possibly damaging glimpse into how the industry operates.Nora Freeman Engstrom, a law professor at Stanford University and an author of an amicus brief signed by law professors in the case, said the ruling showed that the federal protections were “not impenetrable.”“This is not the end,” she said, adding, “Any path for plaintiffs will be long and strewn with obstacles. But this opinion suggests there may well be a road, which before was unclear.”The high stakes posed by the case stirred a vigorous response from both sides that only intensified after recurring episodes of deadly mass violence that followed the Newtown attack.Among those who lobbied in support of the lawsuit were gun violence prevention groups, emergency doctors who have treated patients wounded by assault rifle fire and a statewide association of school superintendents. Many gun-rights groups also raised concerns, including the National Rifle Association, which contended in its brief that allowing the case to move ahead stood to “eviscerate” the gun companies’ legal protections.The ruling comes as yet another twist in the lawsuit’s circuitous path through the court system, one that continued far longer than many, including legal experts and the families, had initially expected. “This decision was a long time in coming but it was more than worth the wait,” said Joshua D. Koskoff, a lawyer for the families.“These families were not going to go away,” he added, “no matter how long it took.”The ruling had been delayed after Remington, one of the nation’s oldest gun makers, filed for bankruptcy last year as its sales declined and debts mounted.The lawsuit, brought by family members of nine people who were killed and a teacher who was shot and survived, was originally filed in 2014, then moved to federal court, where a judge ordered that it be returned to the state level.The families were given a glimmer of hope when a State Superior Court judge, Barbara N. Bellis, permitted the case to approach a trial before she ultimately dismissed it. She found that the claims fell “squarely within the broad immunity” provided by federal law.In 2005, Congress passed the Protection of Lawful Commerce in Arms Act, which restricts lawsuits against gun sellers and makers by granting industrywide immunity from blame when one of their products is used in a crime. Lawmakers behind the measure cited a need to foil what they described as predatory and politically driven litigation.The law does allow exceptions for sale and marketing practices that violate state or federal laws and instances of so-called negligent entrustment, in which a gun is carelessly given or sold to a person posing a high risk of misusing it. The families pushed to broaden the scope to include the manufacturer, Remington, which was named in the suit, along with a wholesaler and a local retailer.The lawsuit said that the companies were wrong to entrust an untrained civilian public with a weapon designed for maximizing fatalities on the battlefield. Lawyers pointed out advertising — with messages of combat dominance and hyper-masculinity — that resonated with disturbed young men who could be induced to use the weapon to commit violence.“Remington may never have known Adam Lanza, but they had been courting him for years,” Mr. Koskoff, one of the lawyers representing the families, told the panel of judges during oral arguments in the case in 2017. The weapon used by Mr. Lanza had been legally purchased by his mother, Nancy Lanza, whom he also killed.Lawyers representing the gun companies argued that the claims raised in the lawsuit were specifically the kind that federal law inoculated them against. In oral arguments, lawyers for the companies argued that the weapons were marketed as being used for home defense and target practice, and not to commit violence.They said that agreeing with the families’ arguments would require amending the law or ignoring how it had been applied in the past.James B. Vogts, a lawyer for Remington, said in court that the shooting “was a tragedy that cannot be forgotten.”“But no matter how tragic,” he added, “no matter how much we wish those children and their teachers were not lost and those damages not suffered, the law needs to be applied dispassionately.”OpinionGun makers will face a jury. But it’s the play-soldier subculture they’ve promoted that’s being judged.A Bushmaster AR-15, the type of gun used in the Sandy Hook school massacre.CreditCreditJulie Dermansky/Corbis, via Getty ImagesSupported byBy The Editorial BoardThe editorial board represents the opinions of the board, its editor and the publisher. It is separate from the newsroom and the Op-Ed section.For years, uncompromising gun enthusiasts have demanded that politicians, the press and the American people never slander their beloved military-style semiautomatic rifles with the name “assault weapons.”Even though the guns are marketed with military imagery. Even though there’s a thriving business in aftermarket accessories, like thermal scopes and high-capacity magazines made to “military specification.” Even after these lethal weapons have been used to kill scores of people in massacre after massacre after massacre. Calling these rifles “assault weapons” is unfair, gun makers and their apologists insist, because it implies they are frightening weapons of war when they are sold for civilian use. This distinction, the fairness of it, matters not at all to the women, men and children wounded or killed by these guns.The Connecticut Supreme Court on Thursday permitted a civil suit to move forward against the companies that manufactured and sold the weapon used by the gunman to fire 154 rounds during a five-minute rampage through Sandy Hook Elementary School in 2012. It was an unexpected loss for the firearms industry, which has long enjoyed federal protection — granted by Congress —  from legal redress for the victims of its products. In this case, the court allowed the suit to proceed over whether the weapon maker violated state prohibitions against unfair trade practices. The plaintiffs argue that the AR-15-style rifle used in the attack had been marketed as a weapon of war in a campaign aimed deliberately at troubled young men like Adam Lanza, the Sandy Hook gunman.A trial could force gun companies to turn over internal communications about their advertising and sales operations. But the public doesn’t need internal emails to recognize the obvious incongruity between sanitized terminology like “modern sporting rifle” and ads with men dressed in tactical gear, swinging tricked-out AR-15s and creeping around like wannabe members of the Navy SEALs. The weapon used at Sandy Hook was advertised as “the ultimate combat weapons system” with the slogan: “Consider your man card reissued.”While it will be gun companies on the stand, the unindicted co-conspirator in the Connecticut courtroom is the portion of American gun culture — and it is only a portion — that fetishizes military weaponry with little regard to the dangers of putting such deadly weapons freely into the hands of a civilian population.AdvertisementSupported byYou’ll never guess why we have so much shooting.By Gail CollinsOpinion ColumnistPerhaps you missed it, but this week the House of Representatives held its first hearing on gun violence in eight years.I know, I know. You’ve had a lot to keep track of, what with everything from the meltdown in Virginia to Jeff Bezos’ selfies.But about the hearing. Testimony centered on a bill that would make it harder for people to buy guns without thorough background checks. Supporters pointed out that right now it’s ridiculously easy to get lethal weapons from an unlicensed seller who is not going to check to see if said purchaser might have a record of violence, stalking or involuntary commitment for mental illness.Amazing, right?Opponents hugged the Second Amendment and argued that the real reason we have so many deaths by gunfire is … Well, guess:A) GunsB) BulletsC) ImmigrantsYes! Are we living in the age of Trump or what?“I hope we do not forget the pain and anguish and sense of loss felt by those all over the country who have been the victims of violence at the hands of illegal aliens,” said Representative Matt Gaetz, a Florida Republican who read a short list of people who had been shot by undocumented immigrants. Better background checks, he contended, “would not have stopped many of the circumstances I raised, but a wall, a barrier on the southern border may have, and that’s what we’re fighting for.”Is there anything that the wall wouldn’t solve? Nearly 40,000 Americans died in gun violence in 2017, the last year for which we have records. But if only there’d been a huge concrete slab dividing us from Mexico, they’d be fine.There are a lot of lawmakers prepared to say almost anything, no matter how nutty, in their role as worker bees for the National Rifle Association. But it was sort of surprising that the lead ranter was from Florida.Next week we’ll be recalling the first anniversary of the Parkland high school shootings in which one student with a gun took the lives of 17 people. We just passed the second anniversary of the fatal shooting of five people in the baggage claim area of the Fort Lauderdale airport. Which came six months after 49 people were shot to death at a nightclub in Orlando. And it was just a couple of weeks ago that a young man walked into a bank in Sebring, Fla., pulled out a pistol, forced five women to lie on the ground and shot each one in the back of the head.All in Congressman Gaetz’s state. All the gunmen were native-born Americans. Perhaps Gaetz feels the border situation was sending dangerous vibes across the Gulf of Mexico and spurring them on.Americans are very, very strongly in favor of good background checks, and it does seem likely this bill will pass the newly Democratic House. Beyond minor technical fixes, that’ll be the first time either chamber has done anything about the issue of gun violence in years.Oh, wait. In 2017 the House and Senate got together and revoked an Obama-era regulation that had made it harder for mentally ill people to purchase a gun.It’s highly unlikely the background check bill will make it into law. “Color me unclear as to how we get Mitch McConnell to bring it up in the Senate,” said Chris Murphy of Connecticut, one of the Senate sponsors.Sigh. All you can do is keep on trying. It may not make the laws any better, but at least it’ll remind the public that some people in power are worried.We have terrible gun problems in this country not just because firearms are all over the place, but also because of the careless, stupid attitude so many people have toward them.Partly, I blame Congress. (Hey, it’s better than blaming a shortage of steel slat barriers.) Senator Murphy believes the endless rejection of any gun legislation looks like a kind of “moral green light” to potential killers: “I truly believe these young men who have something very dark happening in their minds watch our silence and interpret it as an endorsement.”It certainly helps perpetuate the attitude that guns are a casual part of everyday life, like your wallet or socks — something you wear when you go out to buy a loaf of bread, leave lying around the house and treat in general with less care and discretion than a light bulb.Last year safety inspectors at American airports found 4,239 firearms in passengers’ carry-on bags — almost all of them loaded and a third with a bullet already in the chamber. While a few of those people may have been plotting a crime, it’s pretty clear the vast majority were just incredibly careless with lethal weapons.This is the kind of thinking that gives us endless mayhem involving violent, semi-deranged young men who just grab one of the family guns and mow down five people in a bar. Toddlers who shoot themselves when they stumble across a gun that Dad or Granddad left sitting on the bed. Or find a rifle in the back seat of the car and accidentally kill Mom while she’s pulling into the preschool parking lot.We hear stories like that every day. Obviously, it’s all because of those caravans of immigrants coming to the border.AdvertisementSupported byBy The Associated PressHARTFORD CITY, Ind. — An Indiana woman whose 15-year-old son took a handgun to school has been sentenced to four years in prison.The 40-year-old Hartford City woman was sentenced Tuesday after pleading guilty last month to dangerous control of a child. The charge refers to cases where a parent or guardian permits a child to possess a firearm.The Star Press in Muncie reports she acknowledged to investigators she was aware her son had a firearm, but never discussed the matter with him.The boy had been in trouble related to guns before. He took the weapon to Blackford High School on Oct. 30, resulting in a lockdown and a delay in dismissal of students.The Associated Press isn't identifying the woman to avoid identifying her son.AdvertisementSupported byBy The New York Times• New Zealand grappled with grief and horror on Sunday, two days after a gunman opened fire at two mosques in the city of Christchurch, killing at least 50 people. The terrorist attack appeared to have been carried out by a white nationalist who posted a racist manifesto online and streamed live video of the killings on Facebook.• Prime Minister Jacinda Ardern said on Sunday that the suspect, an Australian, would be tried in New Zealand, and that her government would discuss gun regulation at a meeting on Monday. “There will be changes to our gun laws,” she said.• Minutes before the shooting began on Friday, Ms. Ardern was emailed a copy of the manifesto purported to be from the gunman, her office said. Many news outlets and lawmakers also received the email.• The family of the suspect, identified in court papers as Brenton Harrison Tarrant, 28, has apologized for the attack. In an interview published online on Sunday by Australia’s 9News, his grandmother said the family was “shattered” and denounced his actions as “unrepairable.”Prime Minister Jacinda Ardern said Sunday that the suspect charged in the Christchurch shootings, an Australian citizen, would be tried in New Zealand.A 28-year-old man from Australia has been charged with murder and appeared Saturday morning in a Christchurch courtroom. Court papers identified him as Brenton Harrison Tarrant.Ms. Ardern said he would face more charges, but she did not say whether terrorism charges were being considered. She said she was seeking advice on whether Mr. Tarrant might be extradited to Australia, but that his trial would take place in New Zealand.“He will certainly face the justice system of New Zealand for the terror attack he has committed here,” she said.There was no other shooter, Ms. Ardern said. She said one person had been taken into custody as a result of evidence collected during the investigation but that there was no evidence he was linked to the attack.Ms. Ardern said that her government would discuss the New Zealand’s gun laws at a meeting on Monday.“There will be changes to our gun laws,” she said at an afternoon news conference.She also said she would look into reports that there had been a surge in gun sales in New Zealand since the attack on Friday.The shooting has vaulted New Zealand into what could be a divisive political battle over gun control in the country, where many people own weapons, with few restrictions. The authorities say the suspect in the assault used five guns he had acquired legally, including two semiautomatic assault weapons.Many Americans can buy a gun in less than an hour. In New Zealand, the process can take weeks or months.Within hours of the Friday killings, the prime minister promised changes to gun laws and said regulations of semiautomatic weapons were “one of the issues.” New Zealand’s attorney general, David Parker, appeared to go beyond that statement at a vigil for the victims on Saturday, indicating that semiautomatic weapons would be banned, but he later backtracked.Mr. Parker told Radio New Zealand that had been trying to reflect Ms. Ardern’s comments that “we need to ban some semiautomatics, perhaps all of them.”“Those decisions have yet to be taken, but the prime minister has signaled that we are going to look at that issue,” Mr. Parker told the broadcaster.Licensed New Zealand gun owners pushed back. The Kiwi Gun Blog, a gun-rights online publication, said that one of the assailant’s goals was “to cause the gun rights of responsible New Zealanders to be attacked.” It said “our prime minister is now capitulating with him.”There is no dispute that acquiring a military-style semiautomatic weapon is relatively easy in New Zealand, where guns are plentiful. According to a 2017 small arms survey, there are more than 1.2 million firearms among the population of 4.6 million.Under New Zealand law, anyone 16 or older may seek a firearms license, and anyone 18 or older who has applied for a firearms license can seek a permit to possess a military-style semiautomatic weapon.In the United States, the National Rifle Association, a leading advocate of gun-owner rights, issued its first statement on the attack, denouncing the killer while saying nothing about the weapons used.“It doesn’t matter if these senseless tragedies occur in the United States or abroad, our deepest sympathies are with the victims and their families,” said Andrew Arulanandam, a spokesman for the group.“This was the act of a monster. To the extent the N.R.A. is ridiculed for extending our deepest sympathies to those impacted by this horrific event, we make no apologies for our thoughts, words or prayers.”In an exclusive interview with Australia’s 9News, the family of the suspect condemned the attack and offered an apology to the families of the victims.“We’re so sorry for the families over there, for the dead and the injured,” Terry Fitzgerald, the suspect’s uncle, said. “We can’t think nothing else. We just want to go home and hide.”The suspect’s grandmother Marie Fitzgerald, 81, said: “We are all gobsmacked. We don’t know what to think.”“The media is saying he’s planned it for a long time,” she added. “So he’s obviously not of sound mind, I don’t think.”According to the 9News’s report, Brenton Harrison Tarrant had traveled to Europe after his father died of cancer 2010. The trips came at a time when Islamic extremism was on the rise, it said.“It was only since he traveled overseas, I think, that that boy has changed,” Ms. Fitzgerald said.They first learned that Mr. Tarrant was the suspect in the massacre while watching television, the report said. At first, the uncle said, they couldn’t believe it. But then they saw his photo.“It’s unrepairable,” Ms. Fitzgerald said.Brenton Harrison Tarrant, the man charged in the Christchurch shootings, was a member of the Bruce Rifle Club in New Zealand, the club confirmed on Sunday.The club is about a 35-minute drive from Dunedin, New Zealand, where Mr. Tarrant lived. In a statement, the club said it had about 100 members, all of whom are licensed to own and use firearms.Mr. Tarrant joined the Bruce Rifle Club last February, Scott Williams, the club’s vice president, said in an interview. He said Mr. Tarrant appeared to already have shooting skills and typically went to the range by himself.The club told the police on Friday that Mr. Tarrant had been a member, and the police visited the club on Sunday, Mr. Williams said. He said he could not say how often Mr. Tarrant went to the club because his attendance records had been turned over to the police.Mr. Williams said he had seen Mr. Tarrant at the club with a bolt-action hunting rifle and an AR-15 semiautomatic rifle but didn’t know where Mr. Tarrant got them. He said he and other members had seen no indication that Mr. Tarrant had violent intent.“He was just normal,” Mr. Williams said. “He was polite. He would help put things away. He would help set up. He worked like a Trojan.”The club has been closed until further notice, Mr. Williams said.In a live video on Facebook on Saturday, a former member of the New Zealand military named Pete Breidahl said he had reported the Bruce Rifle Club to the police years ago after a visit because he had “serious concerns about the mental stability of some of those members.”He also posted an image of a comment dated Nov. 20, 2017, about the club, in which he said that at least half the members would be going home to “their mums basement and onto the internet for a night of heroic talk in gun forums.”Mr. Williams declined to comment on Mr. Breidahl’s Facebook video.The airport in Dunedin, the city where the suspect in the Christchurch shootings had lived, was closed Sunday evening after a “report of a suspicious package on the airfield,” the authorities said.“Police are at the scene and specialist teams have been deployed to determine the nature of the package,” the New Zealand police said in a statement.Earlier Sunday evening, an armed police officer stood watch outside the address in Dunedin that was listed in court documents as the home of Brenton Harrison Tarrant, the suspect. About a five-minute drive from the center of Dunedin, the second-largest city on the South Island of New Zealand, the pale blue-gray house had air-conditioning units, wide rectangular windows with open curtains, a satellite dish sitting at the top of a cement stairway and an overgrown yard. The mailbox bore a sticker reading: “NO JUNK MAIL. Thank you!”Several people who lived nearby said they did not know many of their neighbors and had not met Mr. Tarrant. They described the neighborhood in the Andersons Bay suburb of Dunedin as a mix of rented and owned homes.Carl Tainui, who lives nearby, was out walking Sunday evening and said he was “shocked” that such “total hatred” had allegedly originated so close to his home.Over the weekend, the police had blocked off the road in the Dunedin neighborhood while a bomb squad searched the area. The street was shut down from Friday evening until midday Saturday. By Sunday evening, journalists swarmed the area, knocking on doors and filming outside Mr. Tarrant’s house.Amy Hanson, 28, moved into a house across the street from Mr. Tarrant’s last year.She said that she had seen Mr. Tarrant’s address listed last week on a rental site for $280 a week and that her sister’s boyfriend had planned to view the property last Tuesday. She said the listing had since been removed.“He must have planned to move out, knew he was going to go to jail or die,” she said. “The weirdest thing is, he is my age. He is so young. I just don’t get it.”Thirty-four victims of the shootings remain in Christchurch Hospital, 12 of them in critical condition, officials said on Sunday.A 4-year-old girl also remains in critical condition at a children’s hospital in Auckland, where she was flown after the attack.A Christchurch Hospital spokesman, David Meates, said that on Saturday the hospital treated nine new victims of the Friday attack. They arrived with cuts, embedded glass fragments and injuries to their backs, knees and feet.Mr. Meates said the hospital was running seven operating theaters on Sunday instead of the usual three.“Many of these people need multiple surgeries due to the complex nature of their injuries, and the need to provide a number of shorter surgeries in a phased way so patients have the best chance of recovery,” he said.Ms. Ardern said the list of people killed was still provisional and that the families of victims would receive financial assistance. She said families would receive the bodies of victims starting Sunday evening, with all bodies expected to be returned by Wednesday.[Here’s how to help the victims of the Christchurch shootings.]A live video posted to social media appeared to show the attack at Al Noor Mosque, where 42 people were killed. The clip appeared to have been taken from a camera worn by a gunman.3 The gunman’s video shows him driving away six minutes after the first shot.1 The gunman parked inthe alley next to the mosque,according to the live video.Al NoorMosqueDeans Ave.2 He openedfire at around1:40 p.m.Re-entered mosque and began firingResumed firingoutside the mosqueShot abystanderFirst shot firedParkedExited mosqueGot new gun fromparked carExitedmosqueDroveaway1 min.later234563 The gunman’s video shows him driving away six minutes after the first shot.1 The gunman parked inthe alley next to the mosque,according to the live video.SouthHagleyParkAl NoorMosqueDeans Ave.2 He opened fire ataround 1:40 p.m.Re-enteredmosque andbegan firingResumed firingoutside the mosqueShot abystanderFirst shot firedParkedExited mosqueGot a new gunfrom the parked carLeft mosqueDroveaway1 minute later234563 The gunman’s video shows him driving away six minutes after the first shot.1 The gunman parked inthe alley next to the mosque,according to the live video.Al NoorMosqueDeans Ave.South Hagley Park2 He opened fire ataround 1:40 p.m.Resumed firingoutside the mosqueRe-entered mosqueand began firingShot abystanderFirst shot firedParkedExited mosqueGot a new gunfrom the parked carLeft mosqueDroveaway1 minute later23456By Jin Wu and Allison McCann | Note: Times are local time.The airline Air New Zealand said one of its employees, Lilik Abdul Hamid, had died in the attack on Friday.The company’s chief executive, Christopher Luxon, said in a statement that Mr. Hamid had been an aircraft maintenance engineer with Air New Zealand for 16 years.“He first got to know the team even earlier when he worked with our aircraft engineers in a previous role overseas,” Mr. Luxon said. “The friendships he made at that time led him to apply for a role in Air New Zealand and make the move to Christchurch.”Mr. Hamid is survived by his wife and two children, Mr. Luxon said.Later on Sunday, the company PricewaterhouseCoopers said that one of its employees, Areeb Ahmed, had also been killed.In a Facebook post, the company said it had learned of Mr. Ahmed’s death from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs in Pakistan.“Areeb was a loved and respected member of our PwC family who lived our values every day,” it said. “His smile, warmth, dedication, respect and humor will be deeply missed.”The prime minister also said that Sheryl Sandberg, the chief operating officer of Facebook, had shared her condolences over the shootings, parts of which were live-streamed on the social media platform.On Sunday, Facebook said it had removed 1.5 million videos of the attack that had been posted worldwide, including 1.2 million that were blocked at upload. The company said it was also removing edited versions of the video that did not show graphic content.The police on Sunday said the death toll had risen to 50 as officials discovered another body at the mosque on Deans Avenue, where most of the victims had been killed. Another 50 people were injured.“As of last night we were able to take all of the victims from both of those scenes and in doing so we have located a further victim,” said Mike Bush, New Zealand’s police commissioner.Mr. Bush said a list of victims’ names has been compiled with the help of senior religious leaders and had been shared with family members. He said the list was an informal one, though, and officials would not confirm the names publicly until the bodies had been formally identified.The bodies have not yet been released to the victims’ families, but Mr. Bush said he was conscious that Muslim religious practice requires prompt burial.“We are aware of the cultural and religious needs so we are doing that as quickly and sensitively as possible,” he said.Police officials say it took 36 minutes from when they received the first call about a shooting at a mosque to when the suspect was taken in custody.“That is an incredibly fast response time,” said John Price, commander of the district police. “You have a mobile offender across a large metropolitan city, and I am very happy with the response of our staff.”“I can tell you that within six minutes of police being called, on 111, within six minutes armed police staff were on the scene,” Mike Bush, New Zealand’s police commissioner, said on Sunday. “Within 10 minutes, our armed offenders squad were on the scene, and within 36 minutes, we had that mobile offender in our custody.”Officials said the gunman arrived at a second mosque, where he continued his rampage, seven minutes after leaving the first.The suspect was later arrested in a car, which was carrying improvised explosive devices, by two police officers. Mr. Bush said the officers prevented further deaths.“Those two police officers acted with absolute courage,” Mr. Bush said on Sunday. “I’m so proud of what they’ve done. They have prevented further deaths and risked their lives doing so.”Prime Minister Jacinda Ardern said that nine minutes before the attack, her office was among more than 30 lawmakers and news organizations that received a manifesto purported to be from the gunman. In accordance with protocol, her office forwarded it to parliamentary security within two minutes of receiving it, she said.Had the manifesto provided details that could have been acted on immediately, Ms. Ardern said, her office would have acted on them. She said she had read parts of the manifesto, which she called “deeply disturbing.”Abdul Aziz, 48, was in the Linwood mosque praying with his four sons when he heard gunshots. He immediately knew something was wrong.Rather than running from the sound, he ran toward it and grabbed the first thing he could find — a credit card machine — and flung it at the attacker. He tried to distract the attacker in a move that many fellow worshipers have described as heroic, weaving through cars in the parking lot, attempting to draw the gunman’s attention away from the mosque.Latef Alabi, the acting imam of Linwood, told The Associated Press he believed the death toll would have been far higher at the mosque without Mr. Aziz’s actions.Mr. Aziz said he saw the attacker drop one of his guns and managed to grab it but when he pulled the trigger, the gun was empty. When the gunman went to his car, presumably to grab more ammunition, Mr. Aziz said he threw the gun at the assailant’s windshield, shattering the glass. The assailant sped away.Mr. Aziz remained humble, saying in an interview with The New York Times that anyone in his position would have done the same. “I was prepared to give my life to save another life,” he said.Originally from Kabul, Afghanistan, Mr. Aziz lived in Australia for 27 years after having fled the violence of his home country. He moved to New Zealand a few years ago, describing it as a beautiful country.Reporting was contributed by Charlotte Graham-McLay, Damien Cave and Jamie Tarabay from Christchurch, New Zealand; Emily Steel from Dunedin, New Zealand; and Sarah Mervosh from New York.AdvertisementSupported byBy Reuters(Reuters) - Pittsburgh's city council on Tuesday approved restrictions on the use of some "assault weapons" and ammunition, passing bills introduced following a 2018 synagogue shooting, in a move gun-rights activists vowed to challenge.The all-Democratic council voted 6-3 to restrict the use of certain semi-automatic weapons, such as the Colt AR-15 rifle, which a lone gunman used in the October shooting at the Tree of Life Synagogue which killed 11 people.City residents who already own such guns would be allowed to keep them. The legislation bans certain ammunition and gun accessories. It also lets authorities temporarily take firearms from people judged a risk to themselves or others. Pittsburgh Mayor Bill Peduto, a Democrat, said he would sign the bill into law.Opponents of the legislation said it violated a state law prohibiting municipalities from regulating firearms or ammunition and vowed to sue the city and file criminal complaints against the council and mayor."If you sign between now and COB Thursday, we'll be at Municipal Court to file private criminal complaints," tweeted Val Finnell, a leading critic of the legislation.Councilman Corey O'Connor said Pennsylvania courts were now more open to allowing municipalities have a say on protecting residents. In 1993, the state courts overturned a previous assault weapons ban by the city council. "It's going to be a difficult battle, but we're willing to fight it," O'Connor told reporters after the vote. Seven U.S. states prohibit assault weapons, but Pennsylvania is not among them. Certain U.S. cities and counties in U.S. states with no assault weapon bans have imposed their own restrictions on the firearms.Pittsburgh council members who voted against the legislation said it would be too costly to litigate given Pennsylvania law.Gun control groups like CeaseFirePA praised the legislation as "common-sense gun laws."AdvertisementSupported byBy Adam LiptakWASHINGTON — Purse snatching and pickpocketing can amount to violent felonies for purposes of a federal law, the Supreme Court ruled on Tuesday in a 5-to-4 decision featuring unusual alliances.The case concerned the Armed Career Criminal Act, a federal law that is a kind of three-strikes statute. It requires mandatory 15-year sentences for people convicted of possessing firearms if they have earlier been found guilty of three violent felonies or serious drug charges.Figuring out what qualifies as one of those earlier offenses is not always easy. Tuesday’s decision considered a part of the law that defined violent felonies to include offenses involving the use or threat of physical force. The question in the case was whether minimal force, as in a purse snatching, is enough.In analyzing whether given crimes qualify as violent felonies under the federal law, the Supreme Court does not look to what the defendant actually did. Rather, it considers whether the crime — in this case, robbery under Florida law — covers conduct that does not qualify as a violent felony.The case involved Denard Stokeling, who pleaded guilty to possessing a gun after burglarizing the Tongue & Cheek restaurant in Miami Beach, where he worked. After he was identified based on surveillance video and witness statements, police found a gun in his backpack. He was prosecuted on federal gun charges.Mr. Stokeling had three earlier convictions, and prosecutors invoked the sentencing law to argue he should serve a much longer prison term than the one the gun charge would ordinarily have warranted.Mr. Stokeling objected, saying that one of his convictions, for robbery in Florida state court arising from a snatched necklace, did not amount to a violent felony. That meant, he said, that he should face only a maximum sentence of 10 years rather than a minimum sentence of 15 years.Justice Clarence Thomas, writing for the majority, said Mr. Stokeling’s robbery conviction counted as a violent felony for purposes of the federal law. The Florida law required proof the victim resisted, he wrote, and that was enough.“The force necessary to overcome a victim’s physical resistance is inherently ‘violent,’” Justice Thomas wrote.“This is true because robbery that must overpower a victim’s will — even a feeble or weak-willed victim — necessarily involves a physical confrontation and struggle,” Justice Thomas wrote. “The altercation need not cause pain or injury or even be prolonged; it is the physical contest between the criminal and the victim that is itself ‘capable of causing physical pain or injury.’ ”The quoted phrase came from a 2010 decision, Johnson v. United States, that concluded that convictions under Florida’s battery statute did not qualify as violent felonies for purposes of the federal sentencing law.Justice Stephen G. Breyer, who generally votes with the court’s liberal wing in closely divided cases, joined the majority opinion on Tuesday, as did Justices Samuel A. Alito Jr., Neil M. Gorsuch and Brett M. Kavanaugh.Justice Sonia Sotomayor dissented, saying the majority opinion could not be reconciled with the 2010 decision or the reality of how little force is required to be convicted of robbery under the Florida law.“A pickpocket who attempts to pull free after the victim catches his arm” qualifies, she wrote. “A thief who grabs a bag from a victim’s shoulder also commits Florida robbery, so long as the victim instinctively holds on to the bag’s strap for a moment.”Justice Sotomayor added that locking up such offenders for long periods does not advance public safety. “Under Florida law, ‘robbers’ can be glorified pickpockets, shoplifters and purse snatchers,” she wrote.Chief Justice John G. Roberts Jr. joined the dissent in the case, Stokeling v. United States, No. 17-5554, as did Justices Ruth Bader Ginsburg and Elena Kagan.Had the court ruled for Mr. Stokeling, Justice Thomas wrote, convictions under at least 31 state robbery laws would have become ineligible to serve as qualifying offenses under the federal sentencing law.Justice Sotomayor questioned the accuracy of that statement and said earlier decisions from the court had already substantially narrowed the scope of the sentencing law. “The majority, fearful for the camel, errs in blaming the most recent straw,” she wrote.AdvertisementSupported byBy ReutersDENVER — The Colorado legislature on Monday passed a "red flag" bill that would allow those deemed a threat to have their firearms seized, despite opposition by most of the state’s sheriffs and threats of legal challenges.Both chambers of the Democratic-controlled General Assembly approved the measure, sending it to the desk of Governor Jared Polis, also a Democrat, who has indicated his support for the measure.If signed into law, Colorado would become the 15th state to enact similar legislation, also called Extreme Risk Protection Orders, according to a statement from statehouse Democrats.Under the legislation, a family member or law enforcement officer could petition a judge to seize firearms from a person they think is a threat to themselves or others. The judge could then hold a hearing without the targeted person being present and grant a temporary order for 14 days.After the two-week order, both the petitioner and the gun owner could then try to persuade a judge why the firearms should or should not be returned.About 50 of the state’s 62 elected sheriffs oppose the measure, according to Weld County Sheriff Steve Reams, who told Reuters he would not enforce the law because it could put his deputies at risk if they raid a home without prior notice.'UNCHALLENGED STATEMENTS'The Second Amendment to the U.S. Constitution guarantees citizens the right to keep and bear arms. Opponents say the Colorado measure goes too far because it does not allow for a person to be heard in court before a judge issues a gun removal order.“Unchallenged statements made by a petitioner before a judge ... would be sufficient for law enforcement to enter that person’s home and confiscate their private property,” the National Rifle Association (NRA) said in a statement.One of the proposal’s sponsors, House Rep. Tom Sullivan, said he ran for elected office after his son Alex was killed in a mass shooting at a Colorado movie theater in 2012.“This bill will give law enforcement and families the tools that they need to stop tragedies from constantly happening and save lives," said Sullivan, a Democrat.The board of commissioners in heavily-Republican El Paso County passed a resolution last month vowing to "actively resist" the law, including taking legal action, if it is enacted.AdvertisementSupported byBy ReutersWASHINGTON — A U.S. appeals court on Monday refused to halt President Donald Trump's ban on "bump stocks" - rapid-fire gun attachments used in the deadliest mass shooting in modern U.S. history - in the latest courtroom defeat for firearms rights advocates opposing the policy.The U.S. Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit upheld a lower court ruling that denied a request by opponents of the policy for a preliminary injunction lifting the ban, which took effect last week. The U.S. Supreme Court twice last week, in cases from Michigan and Washington, D.C., rejected stay requests from gun rights advocates.The policy was embraced by Trump in the wake of an October 2017 mass shooting that killed 58 people at a country music festival in Las Vegas. It requires owners to turn in or destroy the attachments. People caught in possession of them could face up to 10 years in prison.The appeals court previously carved out a temporary exception to the ban for members of the Firearms Policy Foundation and other organizations pursuing the legal challenge. In Monday's decision, the court said it would extend that temporary reprieve for two days to allow the plaintiffs to seek a stay from the U.S. Supreme Court."We are reviewing the decision and will be seeking a stay from the Supreme Court, within the time contemplated by the D.C. Circuit," said Erik Jaffe, a lawyer for the plaintiffs.Bump stocks use a gun's recoil to bump its trigger, enabling a semiautomatic weapon to fire hundreds of rounds per minute, which can transform it into a machine gun. The ban is a rare recent instance of gun control at the federal level in a country that has experienced a succession of mass shootings. Those challenging the policy have argued that the U.S. Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives (ATF) lacks the authority to equate bump stocks with machine guns. One of the laws at the center of the legal dispute was written more than 80 years ago, when Congress restricted access to machine guns during the heyday of American gangsters' use of "tommy guns."AdvertisementSupported byBy Sheryl Gay StolbergWASHINGTON — The National Rifle Association, the nation’s largest gun lobby, has settled on its next target on Capitol Hill: blocking Congress from reauthorizing the Violence Against Women Act, a 1994 law that assists victims of domestic and sexual violence.The House is set to vote on the legislation this week; the law expired in February. But the bill includes a new provision — aimed at curbing sexual violence by expanding law enforcement’s ability to strip domestic abusers of their guns — that the N.R.A. does not like. The measure closes the so-called boyfriend loophole by barring those convicted of abusing, assaulting or stalking a dating partner or those subject to a court restraining order from buying or owning firearms.Under current federal law, those convicted of domestic abuse can lose their guns if they are — or were formerly — married to their victim, live with their victim, have a child with their victim or are a parent or guardian of their victim. The proposed provision would extend those who can be convicted of domestic abuse to include stalkers and current or former boyfriends or dating partners.Jennifer Baker, a spokeswoman for the N.R.A., said that for “many of those ‘offenses’ — and I’m using air quotes here — the behavior that would qualify as a stalking offense is often not violent or threatening; it involves no personal contact whatsoever.” She argues that the new provision is “too broad and ripe for abuse.”“Like if you were sending harassing messages to somebody on Facebook, to somebody you never met or somebody you dated five years ago,” she said, adding, “How it’s written right now, you could be convicted for a misdemeanor stalking offense for a tweet that causes someone emotional distress and then you would be prohibited from owning a firearm.”Others find the N.R.A.’s argument far-fetched. “A single tweet or Facebook message, without significant other conduct, would ordinarily not be enough” to result in a conviction for stalking, said David Keck, director of the National Resource Center on Domestic Violence and Firearms, which provides guidance to law enforcement and governments on implementing firearms prohibitions, but takes no position on the new domestic violence act provision.And times have changed for the gun lobby. A wave of freshman Democrats in Congress were elected on a promise to enact new gun restrictions, and they proudly campaigned against the N.R.A.“The No. 1 way that women are being killed with guns is by their beloveds, their boyfriends, their significant others,” said one of those freshman Democrats, Representative Lucy McBath of Georgia. “I am not paying attention to the rhetoric of the N.R.A. because I can’t be distracted. What’s most important is putting forth good legislation to save as many lives as we can.” Ms. McBath’s son, Jordan Davis, was shot to death in 2012.Roughly half of all female homicide victims are killed by what experts call “intimate partners” — meaning current or former spouses or dating partners — according to a 2017 study by the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. And about half of intimate partner homicides involved dating relationships, according to Mr. Keck.The “boyfriend loophole” provision is “a refocus on should we be just looking at domestic partners or should we be looking more broadly at intimate partners?” he said.Studies also show that domestic abusers with guns inflict a disproportionate amount of violence on their partners, and that the victims are overwhelmingly female. Abused women are five times more likely to be killed by their abuser if the abuser owns a firearm, according to the Giffords Law Center to Prevent Gun Violence, a gun safety group. Roughly three-quarters of all intimate partner murder victims were also victims of stalking by their partners, according to the National Center for Victims of Crime.“The share of homicides committed by dating partners has been increasing for three decades,” said Shannon Watts, who founded Moms Demand Action for Gun Sense in America, a group that supports tighter gun laws, in response to the massacre at Sandy Hook Elementary School in Connecticut in 2012. “Women are now as likely to be killed by dating partners as by spouses with guns.”The reauthorization bill has one Republican co-sponsor, Representative Brian Fitzpatrick of Pennsylvania. Representative Kevin McCarthy, the House Republican leader, is urging Congress to extend the expired law for the rest of the year to continue funding services to survivors at current levels. Ms. Baker, of the N.R.A., accused Democrats of “playing politics” with the bill by inserting the so-called boyfriend provision as a “poison pill” so that Democrats can portray Republicans who vote against it as anti-woman.The N.R.A. has decided to “score” the vote on the Violence Against Women Act, meaning it will keep track and publish how lawmakers vote in an effort to either reward or defeat them in the next election. While the move is not likely to keep the bill from passing the House, it does make it more likely that the “boyfriend loophole” provision will be stripped from the act when the measure arrives in the Senate.“Anybody who votes for this should take the outrage of the N.R.A. and wear it proudly,” said Representative Debbie Dingell, Democrat of Michigan, who drafted the provision as a separate bill and fought for it to be included in the Violence Against Women Act.Ms. Dingell — whose husband, John D. Dingell Jr., who died this year, served on the N.R.A.’s board of directors — has spoken powerfully of her experiences as a child, cowering in the closet in fear of her father, who struggled with mental illness and had a gun.“I am not someone who wants to take people’s guns away,” she said. “I have lived with a man that was an N.R.A. board member and with a man that shouldn’t have had a gun. And I want to stand up for both sides.”The move to oppose the act comes as the N.R.A.’s power is increasingly being challenged on Capitol Hill and in statehouses around the country by gun control activists, including many students who have taken up the charge after the massacre last year at Marjory Stoneman Douglas High School in Parkland, Fla.Twenty-six states and the District of Columbia passed 67 new gun safety laws in 2018, according to the Giffords Law Center to Prevent Gun Violence. On Capitol Hill, the House in February passed legislation expanding background checks to cover nearly all gun purchases — the first significant gun safety measure in 25 years.Even in the Republican-controlled Senate, Senator Lindsey Graham, chairman of the Senate Judiciary Committee, convened a hearing last week on “red flag laws” or extreme risk protection orders that allow family members and law enforcement officers to obtain court restraining orders to remove firearms from people who have been identified as a risk to themselves or others.So far, 14 states and the District of Columbia have laws allowing extreme risk protection orders. Mr. Graham said he is working on legislation to create incentives for states to enact such bills. Ms. Baker said the N.R.A. agrees with the idea in theory but has not supported any of the state laws because of “serious due process concerns.”The idea has gained traction in some unlikely places — including the White House, where President Trump embraced it when Vice President Mike Pence raised it during a meeting with lawmakers after the school massacre in Parkland.“Or Mike, take the firearms first and then go to court,” Mr. Trump told Mr. Pence, adding, “because a lot of times, by the time you go to court, it takes so long to go to court to get the due process procedures. I like taking the guns early.”AdvertisementSupported byBy Simon Romero and Timothy WilliamsALBUQUERQUE — New Mexico’s governor is feuding with county sheriffs, accusing them of going “rogue” by refusing to enforce new gun control legislation. Counties in Oregon are passing militia-backed measures against stricter gun laws. Washington State is warning sheriffs they could face legal action if they don’t run enhanced background checks approved by voters.As states have approved dozens of restrictive gun control measures since the shooting at Marjory Stoneman Douglas High School in Parkland, Fla., last year, efforts to resist such laws have gathered strength around the nation as rural gun owners say their rights are being violated.“This is just a gun-grab measure,” Shane Ferrari, the sheriff of San Juan County, said of a provision that requires background checks on most gun sales in New Mexico, signed into law this month by Gov. Michelle Lujan Grisham, a Democrat.Sheriff Ferrari, a Republican, said he believed that the new law was a violation of the Second Amendment and the state’s existing gun laws, and that he would not enforce it unless a court ruling told him to do so. And all but a handful of counties in New Mexico have expressed similar opposition.The impasses — between local sheriffs and elected officials in states now controlled by Democrats — are raising the specter of a constitutional showdown over enforcement of the new gun laws. Some of the gun rights advocates say they are simply drawing inspiration from strategies employed by liberal critics of the Trump administration: They compare their efforts to declare “Second Amendment sanctuary” counties to so-called sanctuary cities opposing the federal government’s immigration crackdown.“Critics are calling these new laws Gestapo-style tactics when that’s the furthest thing from the truth,” said Victor Snover, the mayor of Aztec, a town in San Juan County that was shaken by a school shooting in 2017 in which a former student killed two students and himself.Mr. Snover, a Democrat who is also a teacher at Aztec High School, called the measure “common sense and reasonable.” He added, “But unfortunately we live in a hyperpartisan time when avoiding tragedies isn’t viewed as reasonable.”In New Mexico and elsewhere, the disputes generally reflect tension between cities that support stricter gun laws and rural areas that want to bolster protections for gun owners. The pushback against new laws generally seeks to maintain existing gun ownership rights; most have not yet been challenged in court.The disputes around the country over the gun control measures raise vexing questions about the rule of law. Governors claim that local sheriffs cannot pick which laws to enforce, but some states have already grappled with low compliance with other gun laws.“There’s a real tension on this issue between urban and rural identities that doesn’t necessarily fit nicely into party loyalties,” said Lonna Atkeson, a political-science professor at the University of New Mexico. She noted that some of the counties vehemently opposing the state’s new gun control legislation are solidly Democratic.Elsewhere, dozens of counties in Illinois have approved “gun sanctuary” resolutions meant to signal local discontent with gun control measures approved by the State Legislature, which is dominated by Democrats.Among the measures approved by Illinois last year was one requiring a 72-hour waiting period for all gun purchases and a so-called red flag bill, which allows relatives and law enforcement officials to ask courts to confiscate firearms from people deemed a threat to themselves or others.In Oregon, where the State Legislature is currently debating several gun control measures — including a bill that would forbid the sale of assault rifles to people under 21 — voters in eight counties have approved ordinances stating that residents have the right to own semiautomatic weapons and high-capacity magazines, even if federal and state law bans them.Some of the most public discontent, however, has come in Washington, where a divide between rural and urban areas has become a recurring political split.In November, nearly 60 percent of Washington State voters approved an initiative prohibiting anyone under 21 from purchasing a semiautomatic rifle and requiring buyers to undergo enhanced background checks. (State law already barred those under 21 from buying a handgun.) Long guns that employ manual operations, including pumps and bolts, could still be purchased at age 18.The law also mandated a 10-day waiting period and completion of a firearms training course. The initiative also allowed prosecutors to charge gun owners with crimes if the gun was stored improperly and someone unable to legally own a gun used it to commit a crime.Most of the law is scheduled to take effect July 1, though the Second Amendment Foundation, a nonprofit group based in Washington State that supports gun rights, has filed a lawsuit seeking to block it.Already, though, more than a dozen sheriffs in Washington have said they will refuse to enforce the law.That has set up a showdown between them and Bob Ferguson, the attorney general.Mr. Ferguson has warned the sheriffs that they have a legal responsibility to enforce the new law in the same manner they are sworn to uphold other laws prohibiting criminal activity.“Local law enforcement officials are entitled to their opinions about the constitutionality of any law, but those personal views do not absolve us of our duty to enforce Washington laws and protect the public,” Mr. Ferguson wrote in a letter last month.But Bob Songer, the sheriff of Klickitat County, a rural county in southern Washington, said that the law violated gun owners’ rights.“There is no way in hell I’m going to be going after their guns if they are honest citizens,” he said. “What I’ve told people is: I’m not giving up my guns, and I don’t expect them to give up theirs.”The sheriff dismissed the pressure from the state’s attorney general to abide by the law.“They are not the boss of the sheriff,” he said. “The only bosses I have are the voters of Klickitat County.”Simon Romero reported from Albuquerque and Timothy Williams from New York.AdvertisementSupported byBy Damien Cave and Charlotte Graham-McLayCHRISTCHURCH, New Zealand — Prime Minister Jacinda Ardern of New Zealand on Thursday announced a national ban on all military-style semiautomatic weapons, all high-capacity ammunition magazines and all parts that allow weapons to be modified into the kinds of guns used to kill 50 people at two mosques in Christchurch last week.“What we’re banning today are the things used in last Friday’s attack,” she said, adding: “It’s about all of us, it’s in the national interest and it’s about safety.”Ms. Ardern is expected to encounter little resistance to the weapons ban in Parliament; the largest opposition party quickly said it supported the measures.Ms. Ardern said her goal was to eliminate from New Zealand the weapons that the killer used in Christchurch. She emphasized that it would require a buyback of banned weapons in circulation now, plus regulation around firearms and ammunition.“The guns used in these terrorist attacks had important distinguishing features,” she said at a news conference at Parliament in Wellington, the capital. “First, big capacity, and also their delivery. They had the power to shoot continuously, but they also had large capacity magazines.”Ms. Ardern’s plan for immediate gun policy changes, announced six days after a mass shooting, stands in stark contrast to the stalemate and resistance to change that has stymied similar calls for restrictions on firearms in the United States.Many Americans can buy a gun in less than an hour. In New Zealand, the process can take weeks or months.Ms. Ardern’s handling of the massacre and its aftermath have resonated around the world and thrust her into the spotlight as a force on the issue of guns.The shooting in New Zealand comes after the United States has experienced an alarming number of mass shootings in recent years, including the Sandy Hook, Conn., school shooting that took 27 lives in 2012; the Orlando nightclub shooting in 2016, which killed 49; the Las Vegas concert shooting in 2017 that left 58 dead; and the Parkland, Fla., school shooting, which killed 17 people in 2018.Gun policy experts called Ms. Ardern’s plans to restrict access to certain forms of guns and ammunition far-reaching in scope.“It’s a very bold move,” said Philip Alpers, a University of Sydney academic who runs GunPolicy.org, an international clearinghouse for gun research.[Dozens of victims were buried on Friday as Christchurch residents and visitors shared a Muslim call to prayer.]Chris Cahill, the president of the Police Association, the union representing New Zealand’s police officers, praised Ms. Ardern’s plan, saying that his group had been calling for such measures for years.“This addresses the key concerns we have,” he said. “It’s hitting those military-style semiautomatics. It’s exactly what we wanted.”The overhauls, Ms. Ardern said, are inspired partly by what Australia set in motion after a mass shooting there in 1996: a mix of buybacks, registration and outright bans that severely reduced mass shootings.But experts said there were some key differences.“In Australia, it was a very simple definition, all semiautomatic rifles and shotguns, full stop,” Mr. Alpers said. “Here I can see a few gray areas.”New Zealand’s plan takes aim at capability, not just a particular class of weapons.Gun owners in New Zealand, responding online to the announcement, said it was confusing and began asking which of their weapons would be banned or exempted. Others seemed more resigned to giving up their guns.“Glad I took my ar15 for a walk up the range today,” one commenter wrote, referring to a type of firearm. “We had a blast could be the last time.”The “capability” approach — which is likely to lead to a list of banned items, Mr. Alpers said — could be watered down through furious lobbying. But it could also amount to a new global standard, broad enough to go beyond Australia’s because it could include weapons and accessories not yet developed.That seemed to be Ms. Ardern’s intent.“Today, I’m announcing New Zealand will ban all military-style semiautomatic weapons,” Ms. Ardern said in outlining the changes. “We will also ban all assault rifles. We will ban all high-capacity magazines. We will ban all parts with the ability to convert semiautomatic or any other type of firearm into a military-style semiautomatic weapon.”“We will ban parts that cause a firearm to generate semiautomatic, automatic or close-to-automatic gunfire,” she added. “In short, every semiautomatic weapon used in the terror attack on Friday will be banned in this country.”The weapons, ready amplifiers of rage, allow a few people to kill scores and menace hundreds, and fight head-to-head against modern soldiers and police forces.Mr. Alpers said the challenge for New Zealand would mainly be getting the ammunition and guns that already exist out of circulation. Half of Australia’s states had some kind of gun registration plan in place before the 1996 reforms, making it easier for the authorities to know what weapons were out there and what needed to be brought in.New Zealand only registers 4 percent of its weapons. According to the police, about 250,000 people in the country own an estimated 1.2 million to 1.5 million firearms. It is unclear how many of them would be affected by the ban.“New Zealand is at a considerable disadvantage to countries that have had registries, because there’s no way of tracing the firearms because they don’t know who’s got them,” Mr. Alpers said. “We’re relying entirely on the honesty of the gun owner to turn it in.”Ms. Ardern said that fair compensation would be paid to all those who participate.Noting that there would be some limited exceptions for specific purposes, especially in rural areas, she said she expected the new law to be in place by April 11, the end of Parliament’s next session.In the interim, as of Thursday afternoon, a change in regulations would alter the licensing rules for the weapons that would eventually be banned. To avoid a rush on purchases, weapons that now require a basic A Class license will fall under an E Class gun license, which is already much harder to obtain, and which the prime minister said would now be impossible to get.“I can assure people there is no point in applying for such a permit,” she said.[Read more about the victims of the attack, who spanned generations and nationalities, and their families’ struggle for closure.]The suspect in the shootings, Brenton H. Tarrant, 28, was a licensed gun owner and member of a local gun club. An official with one gun retailer said his company had sold Mr. Tarrant four firearms along with ammunition between December 2017 — a month after Mr. Tarrant received his gun license — and March 2018.But officials still do not know the source of a semiautomatic rifle that can be seen in a video of the attack on Al Noor Mosque, one of the two mosques the gunman targeted. The authorities say that five guns acquired legally, including two semiautomatic assault weapons, were used in the assault.On Wednesday, the authorities said that when the suspect was arrested, he had two weapons with him along with explosives and that he was planning to continue his attack.His efforts were optimized for internet fame and to broadcast a message of white supremacy. Minutes before the attacks started, he published a manifesto to message boards where white supremacists gather, and included a link to the page where the streaming video of the shooting would appear.In addition to gun policy, Ms. Ardern has been arguing nearly every day since the attacks that there is a need for the world’s most powerful tech platforms to take responsibility for spreading messages of hate that lead to violence.Leaders in many countries, she said, need to be united in making clear that with profit comes responsibility.“There are some things we need to confront collectively as leaders internationally,” she said at a news conference in Christchurch on Wednesday. “We cannot, for instance, allow some of the challenges we face with social media to be dealt with on a case-by-case basis.”For now, though, she has made clear that her focus will be on another international industry that her government can regulate immediately — guns.The goal, she said on Thursday, is simple: “to prevent an act of terror from happening in our country ever again.”OpinionNicholas KristofAdvertisementSupported byBy The Associated PressRIO DE JANEIRO — Gun makers and military industry companies from all over the world gathered in Rio de Janeiro for Latin America's largest defense and security fair Tuesday, hoping to benefit from Brazil's new far-right administration and President Jair Bolsonaro's vow to loosen gun laws.Brazil, whose gun market remains mostly closed to foreign firms, was expecting some 450 companies and nearly 200 delegations from 80 countries during the four-day expo, organizers said."This industry is very relevant for our economic growth," Brazilian defense minister Fernando Azevedo e Silva said in his opening speech.Brazil is the world's third-largest gun manufacturer after the United States and China, according to Brazilian think tank Igarape.The current administration has sent positive signals to both domestic and foreign companies. In January, soon after being sworn into office, Bolsonaro signed a decree, making it easier for many Brazilians to buy firearms. His party also plans to put forward new legislation that would loosen restrictions on carrying firearms and the number and type of guns civilians can own.Bolsonaro made public security a centerpiece of his campaign, saying police officers who kill criminals should be decorated, not prosecuted, and promising to overhaul gun laws in the world's murder capital.Rio de Janeiro state Gov. Wilson Witzel adopted a similar stance. In an interview on Sunday Witzel said he had already met one of his flagship campaign promises: using sharpshooters to target criminals seen carrying large firearms.For weapon and ammunition companies this intense focus on public security could represent a significant opportunity. Brazil's state-run Industria de Material Belico do Brasil (IMBEL), linked to the Defense Ministry, says demand shot up 20 percent following the decree."We are seeing various foreign companies, new brands, coming to Brazil," said Marcel Muniz Costa, the firm's head of communications told the Associated Press.Switzerland's defense technology firm Ruag is one of them. "We are very hopeful with this new administration", said Ruag Ammotec's senior vice president, Martin Neujahr. The company has recently decided to make Brazil their new Latin America headquarters.The company believes the market for small calibers and ammunitions in Brazil to be worth $50 million "or more than all other Latin American countries combined," Neujahr said.A representative for a foreign company at the fair, who asked to remain anonymous as to not compromise ongoing negotiation efforts with Brazil, said their prices were four to five time lower than its Brazilian competitors."We're seeing a lot of interest from the police and the army," the representative told The Associated Press.But for this to happen, observers and market participants say Brazil must go further and put an end to the near-monopolies domestic companies have benefited from."National politicians, lobbyists and weapons manufacturers have also benefited handsomely from subsidies and tax breaks. As a result, Taurus, the country's largest firearms maker, has enjoyed a virtual monopoly on the production of handguns and rifles," Robert Muggah, Igarape's research director, said in a statement.A historic tie between domestic companies such as Taurus and the army, who must approve the arrival of any outside competitor in Brazil, has not helped the cause of foreign firms. And while President Bolsonaro is clear on wanting to widen access to guns in the country, he sends a dual message on foreign competition, says Brazilian institute Sou da Paz."He has traditional links with the army, a very nationalistic institution, which protects this idea that the defense industry is strategic", said Felipe Angeli, advocacy coordinator at Sou da Paz.AdvertisementSupported byBy Michael Gold[What you need to know to start the day: Get New York Today in your inbox.]A seemingly offhand remark in a high school lunchroom set off an investigation that uncovered an arsenal of weapons and a plot to attack a Muslim enclave in upstate New York, law enforcement officials said.The comment was made by a 16-year-old student at Greece Odyssey Academy in Greece, N.Y.On Friday, he showed classmates a photo of someone and said that person looked like a potential school shooter, authorities said.The statement alarmed fellow students, who reported it to school officials. The local police became involved and started interviewing people at the school to determine whether there was a potential threat.The threat, it turned out, came from the 16-year-old whose comments had triggered the investigation, authorities said on Tuesday. He and three young adults stockpiled 23 firearms and three homemade bombs as part of a plan to target the secluded Muslim enclave of Islamberg, a rural settlement about 150 miles northwest of New York City, authorities said.The men, Vincent Vetromile, 19, Brian Colaneri, 20, and Andrew Crysel, 18, all from suburban Rochester, were arrested and charged with criminal possession of a weapon and conspiracy, according to court documents.A fourth person was arrested and charged with the same offenses as an adolescent offender, Greece’s police chief, Patrick Phelan, said at a news conference on Tuesday. His name was not revealed because of his age.All four suspects remained in custody as of Wednesday morning. The juvenile suspect is being held on a $1 million bail and is scheduled to return to court next week. The three adults, who are being held on $50,000 cash bails or $100,000 bonds, are scheduled to appear in court next month.No federal terrorism charges have been filed. But Monroe County’s district attorney, Sandra Doorley, said Tuesday that the U.S. attorney’s office is involved in the investigation and that federal charges were possible.It was unclear how all four of those charged were linked or how they initially connected, though at least three of the four were boy scouts, Mr. Phelan said. Two of them, Mr. Vetromile and Mr. Crysel, were eagle scouts.The three adults were also enrolled at Monroe Community College in Rochester at various points in the last two years, a college spokeswoman said. It was not clear whether their enrollment dates overlapped. Mr. Vetromile was last enrolled during the summer term in 2017, Mr. Colaneri in the fall semester of 2017 and Mr. Crysel in the spring of 2018, the spokeswoman said.Mr. Phelan said the four suspects had been planning their attack for about a month. They communicated on Discord, a group chat app created for video gamers that later became popular among far-right activists.Officials only discovered the planned attack through their investigation at the school, Mr. Phelan said.Had students not come forward with their concerns, he said, “people would have died.”As part of the investigation, the police recovered 23 legally owned shotguns and rifles from multiple locations, Mr. Phelan said.Law enforcement officials also found three improvised explosive devices, homemade bombs that appeared to be filled with black powder and nails, Mr. Phelan said. It was unclear whether they were capable of being detonated, he said, but they were sent to an F.B.I. laboratory in Quantico, Va., for further examination.Court documents described the devices as a large cylinder, a medium-sized cylinder and a Mason jar, all wrapped in duct tape.Mr. Phelan said that officials were not yet sure why the four suspects had chosen to target Islamberg, which is more than three hours from Greece by car. But he said that officials were continuing to examine the men’s electronic devices to determine a motive.Islamberg, a rural hamlet in Delaware County, covers at least 60 acres of rolling tree-covered hills, lakes and fields. Reaching it requires driving along country roads that wind through thick woods.The community was settled in the 1980s by followers of a Pakistani cleric, Mubarik Ali Shah Gilani. The initial settlers were predominantly African-American Muslims who left New York City looking for a better place to practice their religion and raise their children. It serves as the headquarters for an organization called Muslims of America, which operates similar communities throughout the United States, according to a 2017 Associated Press story.Over the past several years, Islamberg has been attacked by anti-Muslim groups and some right-wing conspiracy theorists, who have said that the town is actually a terrorist training camp despite its peaceful history.For the past three years, a group called “Bikers United Against Jihad” has organized a motorcycle protest against the community — though the bikers have been outnumbered by counterprotesters.Islamberg has also previously faced threats of violence. In 2015, a man from Tennessee, Robert Doggart, was arrested and charged with plotting an attack on the community. Prosecutors said that he planned to recruit a militia to shoot Islamberg residents and blow up the mosque there. He was convicted and sentenced to nearly 20 years in prison in 2017.In a statement, Muslims of America said the plot caused fear and “sent shock waves” through its community.AdvertisementSupported byBy The Associated PressDENVER — The Democrat-controlled Colorado Legislature sent a "red flag" bill Monday to the governor that calls for taking firearms from people who could pose a threat to themselves or others.Gov. Jared Polis, also a Democrat, has pledged to sign the measure that would place the state among 13 others that have passed such legislation. Florida passed its law after the 2018 Parkland school massacre.The Colorado bill would allow family, household members or law enforcement to petition a court to have guns seized or surrendered. A subsequent court hearing could extend a gun seizure up to 364 days.The bill places the burden of proof on the gun owner to get the firearms back by showing that he or she no longer poses a risk.Republicans repeatedly sought to shift that burden of proof to those seeking the protective order. They argued the legislation offers no due process to gun owners.Republicans also say it violates constitutional rights and could lead to violent confrontations if a judge orders police to confiscate firearms from a resistant owner.Party members defeated similar legislation last year, when they controlled the state Senate.Democrats swept both legislative chambers and retained the governorship in November's elections.The state House voted 38-25 Monday to approve Senate amendments to the bill."This bill will give law enforcement and families the tools that they need to stop tragedies from constantly happening and save lives," said first-term Rep. Tom Sullivan, who sponsored the bill with House Majority Leader Alec Garnett.Sullivan's son, Alex, was killed on his 27th birthday in the 2012 mass shooting at an Aurora theater.Several law enforcement officials testified for the bill, named after Zackari Parrish, a 29-year old sheriff's deputy in Douglas County. The husband and father was shot and killed in a New Year's Eve 2017 shooting by a man who had exhibited increasingly erratic behavior.Opponents say about half of the counties in the state have passed resolutions opposing the bill, symbolically declaring their counties "Second Amendment sanctuaries."Some of the mostly rural counties said they will back sheriffs who do not enforce the measure and will not spend any money to store confiscated guns.State Attorney General Phil Weiser, a Democrat, has said sheriffs who don't want to enforce the measure should resign. Polis, however, said on March 26 that he believes sheriffs are committed to enforcing laws approved at the Capitol. Polis also said sheriffs have discretion to decide which issues to focus on.It's the first major gun legislation to make its way through both Colorado legislative chambers since 2013, when lawmakers passed universal background checks and banned large-capacity ammunition magazines after the mass shootings in Aurora and at Sandy Hook Elementary School in Connecticut.Voters subsequently recalled two Democratic lawmakers for supporting the measures. A third resigned rather than face a recall.AdvertisementSupported byLetter of RecommendationBy Maureen O’ConnorI was at the airport, killing time in a Hudson News with a luxury-travel-magazine feature about Cara Delevingne’s favorite private island, when another magazine caught my eye. In bold type, a cover line blared: “What if Your Ocean Liner Is Hijacked?” This event seemed about as likely to happen to me as a visit to Cara Delevingne’s favorite private island, so I purchased both. As I waited to board, I started flipping through the second magazine, Recoil Offgrid. It’s a sister publication to Recoil, the “firearm lifestyle” magazine, but geared toward the more apocalypse-minded. Whereas most prepper culture skews rural, Offgrid welcomes those who live on the grid — and are utterly terrified about what would happen if the grid turned off.The boat hijacking story was part of “What If?” a recurring feature that is Offgrid’s most addictive: it blends fiction, journalism and alarmingly evocative illustrations to describe the most agonizing ways to die in modern life — and offers expert advice on how to avoid or escape them. Examples include “What if You Were Trapped in a Mass Shooting?” “What if You Have to Deliver a Baby Without Medical Help?” “What if Your Utilities Are Indefinitely Disrupted?” and “What if Your Subway Is Attacked With Chemical Weapons?” Each scenario begins with some fictional mise-en-scиne: “The rhythmic vibrations of the subway car had almost lulled me back to sleep, even though the cabin was crowded with morning commuters,” the chemical-attack story opens. “It was working, until the passengers at the end of the subway car started screaming.” Written in the first- or second-person, this setup imagines the unimaginable, in granular detail.The fictional protagonist always has an identity: In the subway story, “you” are depicted as a bookish intellectual who takes the 7 train to Columbia University for a lecture. (Forgive them for reimagining the 7 train’s route; Offgrid is based in California.) Sometimes the identity is a story unto itself, like in “What if You’re Stranded in the Desert?” Here, “you” are “a portly sales executive in your early 50s named Mark, about to depart on a long road trip back home to Wichita, Kan. You dropped off your daughter, Laura, at her new home for the next four years: New Mexico State University. Despite the tears and laughs, the trip was a success, thanks to your trusted ’90 Ford F-150.” But then your vehicle breaks down on an unmarked road in the middle of nowhere, and your phone’s GPS doesn’t work.Bullet points outline vital information like the season, place and weather. (100 degrees and sunny in New Mexico? Of course your old truck overheated, you fat fool!) And then a panel of experts explains your options for saving yourself. It’s like reading all of the possible endings in a Choose Your Own Adventure novel — while knowing the “adventure” could actually happen, if you choose poorly in real life, or if your luck runs out.The experts who appear in “What If?” are paramedics, firefighters, a guy who trains Navy SEALs and the occasional lawyer for ominous consultation on self-defense laws. Their professional advice would seem to offer an antidote to the anxieties “What If?” stirs up. But like all great literary works, “What If?” resists simple resolution: The panelists rarely agree on what you must, or must not, do to survive. In the advice portion of the ocean-liner story, a former cop recommends “establishing an operable militia of ship patrons.” But a professional survivalist argues that resistance would be futile in your average hijacked-by-ISIS-backed-pirates scenario: “You’re not going to go up against an AK-47-wielding attacker with a rolled-up magazine or a butter knife.” Smarter to barricade yourself in your room with a satellite telephone and call the State Department.Among the contradictions, there is a more abstract form of comfort — a tacit acknowledgment that, though we may struggle mightily to influence fate, we can never entirely predict or control it. Offgrid’s “What If?” does for disaster what Penthouse letters do for sex: It vividly describes events that its readers may have contemplated, or even obsessed over, but lack the imagination or information to really bring to life. (What nuclear war and three-way sex have in common: public interest vastly outpaces real-world probability.)But amid this chaos, “What If?” also provides small points of stability. Chlorine gas, I learned, is heavier than air. In the event of a chlorine attack, you should not crawl on the floor, as you might in a fire, but stand and seek higher ground. If you come across a rattlesnake while you are trapped in the desert, hold still — rattlesnakes track movement with ground vibrations.AdvertisementSupported byBy Emily SteelDUNEDIN, New Zealand — The gun enthusiast with light brown hair and an Australian accent did not stand out among the 100 or so members of the Bruce Rifle Club, who practiced shooting at a range in a forest in southern New Zealand.He favored a bolt-action hunting rifle and an AR-15 semiautomatic rifle and would participate in shooting competitions. No one saw any warning signs.“He was polite,” said Scott Williams, the club’s vice president. “He would help put things away. He would help set up. He worked like a Trojan.”But now New Zealand officials are wondering if anyone might have missed something about Brenton Harrison Tarrant, the 28-year-old suspect in the shootings at two mosques in Christchurch on Friday that left at least 50 people dead.On Monday, Prime Minister Jacinda Ardern said she had ordered an inquiry into whether government agencies could have prevented the attack.“The purpose of this inquiry is to look at what all relevant agencies knew — or could or should have known — about the individual and his activities, including his access to weapons,” she said at a news conference in Wellington, the capital.She also said her cabinet had agreed “in principle” to an overhaul of the country’s gun laws and was working out the details.“Within 10 days of this horrific act of terrorism, we will have announced reforms that I believe will have made our community safer,” Ms. Ardern said.Earlier, Wally Haumaha, the deputy New Zealand police commissioner, said identification specialists had worked through the night to identify the people killed at the Al Noor and Linwood mosques so that their bodies could be returned to their families. Islamic leaders and victims’ relatives have been discussing whether to hold a burial for all 50 victims at once, possibly on Wednesday.As of Monday night, 31 people were hospitalized in Christchurch, nine of them in critical condition. A 4-year-old was in critical condition at a hospital in Auckland, where she was flown after the attack.Police investigations continued, as counterterrorism officers in Australia searched the homes of Mr. Tarrant’s mother and sister in the northeastern coastal towns of Lawrence and Sandy Beach.And in New Zealand, more than half a dozen police officers searched Mr. Tarrant’s residence near the center of Dunedin, about 220 miles south of Christchurch. The blue-gray house had air-conditioning units, wide, rectangular windows with open curtains, an overgrown yard and a mailbox with a sticker reading: “NO JUNK MAIL. Thank you!”Two weeks before the attack, Mr. Tarrant’s one-bedroom, one-bathroom home was listed online as available for rent starting April 2, according to a cached version of the post that has since expired.[Read about the challenges of reporting on a shooting that was set up like “an internet performance.”] President Recep Tayyip Erdogan of Turkey said Monday that Mr. Tarrant made two trips to the country in 2016, one for three days and the other for 43 days. Turkish officials said they were investigating what he did there.Few details have emerged about Mr. Tarrant’s life. It is unclear whether he had a job. Several neighbors said they did not know many of their neighbors and had not met Mr. Tarrant.Anytime Fitness confirmed in a statement on Monday that Mr. Tarrant was a member of the Dunedin branch of the 24-hour gym. On Sunday, several regulars at the gym said they did not know Mr. Tarrant or recall seeing him there.What is known is that Mr. Tarrant was a licensed gun owner and member of the Bruce Rifle Club. He appeared to already have shooting skills when he joined in February 2018 and he typically went to the range by himself, said Mr. Williams, the club’s vice president.The club has come under criticism from a former member of the New Zealand military named Pete Breidahl, who said he reported it to the police in 2017 after visiting in November that year. He said he had had concerns about the mental stability of the members and the way they handled firearms.“They wore camo around the range, like they were living some military base fantasy,” Mr. Breidahl said in an interview on Monday.Mr. Breidahl said that he had been in contact with the police after the Christchurch shootings and that he was scheduled to meet with them on Tuesday.Many Americans can buy a gun in less than an hour. In New Zealand, the process can take weeks or months.Mr. Williams said that the Bruce Rifle Club was cooperating with the police investigation and that it was closed until further notice.By the time Mr. Tarrant joined the club, he had already started buying firearms from Gun City, one of New Zealand’s largest gun retailers. David Tipple, the managing director, said his company had sold Mr. Tarrant four firearms along with ammunition between December 2017 — a month after Mr. Tarrant received his gun license — and March 2018.Mr. Tipple said Mr. Tarrant’s online purchases had not raised any red flags.“He was a brand-new purchaser, with a brand-new license,” he said.Darren Jacobs, chief executive of Hunting & Fishing New Zealand, confirmed on Monday that the retailer’s Dunedin branch had sold Mr. Tarrant a bolt-action hunting rifle in 2017.Still a mystery is the source of a semiautomatic rifle that can be seen in a video of the attack on Al Noor Mosque. Mr. Tipple said it did not come from Gun City.The details of Mr. Tarrant’s arsenal emerged as New Zealand considers tightening its gun regulations. Among the legislative changes the prime minister is likely to consider are a ban on semiautomatic weapons and laws requiring that all firearms be registered and all gun sales recorded.Mr. Tipple said that New Zealand should avoid “emotional responses” in the debate over gun laws.“This man wrote in his manifesto that the purpose of using a firearm was to divide us,” Mr. Tipple said. “If we allow him to make changes in our ideology and in our behavior, he’s won.”Others disagreed. Outside the Dunedin branch of Gun City on Monday, Karen Nielsen, 47, stood holding a white poster board with black capital letters reading, “This store sells weapons of mass destruction.” She had a solemn expression on her face as she described how the “horrific, horrific events” in Christchurch had inspired her to protest that morning after she drove her children to school.Ms. Nielsen said that as a former hunter, she was not opposed to guns. Her husband used to be a member of the Bruce Rifle Club like Mr. Tarrant.“There’s nothing wrong with single-bolt firearm rifles,” she said. “It’s the semiautomatics that we need to get rid of. If you can’t kill an animal with one shot, you shouldn’t be hunting.”As she was speaking, Brett Cleveland left the store holding a bag with ammunition that he had just purchased. Mr. Cleveland listened calmly, then said that he owned an AR-15 and was also a member of the Bruce Rifle Club.“As far as I am aware, there is only one rifle club in this area,” Mr. Cleveland said. “He had to go there. It wasn’t like he joined up because he went, ‘There is a bunch of like-minded people.’”He said he hoped that government officials would find a way to compromise.“The knee-jerk reaction is going to be the gun people aren’t going to want any changes,” Mr. Cleveland said. “The other people are going to want a ban on everything. There is never any common sense. The middle is usually the best place to be.”Trade Me, New Zealand’s biggest online marketplace, said on Monday that it had removed all semiautomatic firearms and related parts from its site in response to customer concerns.Also on Monday, a teenager charged with creating and distributing objectionable materials made his first appearance in a Christchurch court. Prosecutors say the 18-year-old, whose name and identifying details have been suppressed, published a photo of Al Noor Mosque with the message “Target acquired” a week before the shootings. He did not enter a plea and was remanded into custody until his next court appearance in April.The police said that they did not believe he was involved in the attack.Damien Cave and Charlotte Graham-McLay contributed reporting from Christchurch, New Zealand.Want more coverage from Australia and New Zealand? Sign up for the weekly Australia Letter, start your day with your local Morning Briefing and join us in our Facebook group.AdvertisementSupported byBy The Associated PressPITTSBURGH — The Pittsburgh City Council gave tentative approval Wednesday to gun-control legislation introduced in the wake of the 2018 synagogue massacre, an effort certain to be challenged in court by Second Amendment advocates who point out that state law doesn't generally allow municipalities to regulate firearms.The legislation would place restrictions on military-style assault weapons like the AR-15 rifle that authorities say was used in the Oct. 27 rampage at Tree of Life Synagogue that killed 11 and wounded seven. It would also ban most uses of armor-piercing ammunition and high-capacity magazines, and would allow the temporary seizure of guns from people who are determined to be a danger to themselves or others.The overwhelmingly Democratic council voted 6-3 to approve the bills, with a final vote scheduled for April 2. Council members who voted against the legislation called it a waste of time and money, given the uncertainty over whether it would ever go into effect. Supporters said it was worth the effort."It is the right fight to have and it is the right time to have this fight," said Democratic Councilman Corey O'Connor, a co-sponsor.The three-bill package — proposed not long after the deadliest attack on Jews in U.S. history — was watered down last week in an effort to make it more likely to survive a court challenge.State law has long prohibited municipalities from regulating the ownership or possession of guns or ammunition. While one of the Pittsburgh bills originally included an outright ban on assault weapons, the revised measure bars the "use" of assault weapons in public places. A full ban on possession would only take effect if state lawmakers or the state Supreme Court give municipalities the right to regulate guns — which even the bill's boosters say is an unlikely prospect in a largely rural state where legislative majorities have been fiercely protective of gun rights."We are never going to enforce these laws," said Democratic Councilwoman Theresa Kail-Smith, who voted no. "It's a nice symbol."Councilman Anthony Coghill, a fellow Democrat who also voted no, called the legislation a "distraction" and said he'd have a tough time facing his constituents if the city spends a fortune on lawyers. Supporters said some of the anticipated legal defense work would be done pro bono.Pro-gun advocates cast the amended legislation as an attack on the right to bear arms and said they will immediately file suit if the City Council passes the bills into law next week."All of it's illegal. Pennsylvania preemption law says that no municipality, period, may in any manner regulate. And that's at the heart of what they're doing," said Kim Stolfer, president and co-founder of Firearms Owners Against Crime.Allegheny County District Attorney Stephen Zappala Jr., a Democrat, told city council members in January that while he understood their desire to curtail gun violence, their proposed remedies were unconstitutional. A spokesman said Zappala had not seen the revised legislation, and declined comment on its merits.Pittsburgh and its larger counterpart to the east, Philadelphia, have tried before to enact gun legislation, with mixed results.Both cities passed assault-weapons bans in 1993. The state Legislature quickly took action to invalidate the measures, and the Pennsylvania Supreme Court ruled that city officials had overstepped.Philadelphia tried again in 2008, enacting limits on gun purchases and another ban on assault weapons. The state Supreme Court threw out both ordinances, but ruled the city could enforce three other measures: one that requires people to report lost or stolen firearms; another that empowers police to seize guns from people posing a risk to themselves or others; and a third that bans gun ownership for anyone subject to a protection-from-abuse order.Pittsburgh has had its own lost-and-stolen law for more than a decade, but it's never been enforced. Tim McNulty, a spokesman for Democratic Mayor Bill Peduto, said the city is reconsidering that stance in the wake of the synagogue massacre and a recent announcement by Philadelphia District Attorney Larry Krasner that he intended to begin enforcing that city's lost-and-stolen ordinance.Peduto, who has long advocated for stricter gun laws, has thrown his weight behind the new legislation."Pittsburgh owes it to those murdered at Tree of Life and countless others living in fear of gun violence every day in city neighborhoods to take this cause on," McNulty said.Second Amendment attorney Joshua Prince, who represents Stolfer's pro-gun group and has won a string of victories against Pennsylvania municipalities that enacted gun measures, called the latest Pittsburgh effort to restrict firearms "political grandstanding" and predicted it will fail.AdvertisementSupported byBy Damien CaveCHRISTCHURCH, New Zealand — When the prime minister announced plans to ban semiautomatic rifles following Friday’s mass shootings, it seemed to be the bold response that many New Zealanders wanted — until the country’s attorney general backpedaled almost immediately and said that might not be the government’s final decision.Even after a massacre that left 50 people dead, the fight over guns and safety will be a fraught one for politicians in peaceful New Zealand, just as it is in the United States.But there is a crucial difference between the two countries that is already apparent: While Washington struggles to take action even as such shootings become more routine, New Zealand’s government is immediately diving into a detailed discussion of further legislative checks on guns.The outright prohibition of semiautomatic weapons proposed by Prime Minister Jacinda Ardern may no longer be on the near-term table. But she’s made clear that lawmakers will look at a range of options, from gun buybacks to restrictions on magazines for semiautomatic rifles.“New Zealand has to have this debate,” said Alexander Gillespie, a law professor at the University of Waikato, who once predicted that the country’s approach to firearms would lead to more mass shootings. “This is a place where your car has to be registered, your dog has to be registered. But your gun doesn’t.”[New Zealand will open an inquiry on what was known about the gunman before the massacre.]New Zealand’s relationship to firearms amounts to a sliding scale of restrictions. Gun owners need a license, but the most commonly used guns, like hunting rifles, are never registered and can be easily bought and sold in large quantities. Handguns and semiautomatic weapons are more closely tracked, requiring a permit for each purchase and a separate license — making it harder but not impossible to amass an arsenal.The mix of freedom and regulation reflects the country’s frontier history, according to experts, who note that New Zealand’s link to weaponry bears a resemblance to the United States, Australia and Canada, but with a few important distinctions.Many Americans can buy a gun in less than an hour. In New Zealand, the process can take weeks or months.There is no right to own a gun here, as there is in the United States; rather, it is considered a privilege with responsibility.The gun culture that has developed tends to be organized, careful and not particularly widespread. Of the 3.9 million New Zealanders of gun-licensing age, 238,000 — 6 percent — have a firearm license, according to GunPolicy.org.In the United States, according to a Pew study from 2017, three out of 10 Americans report owning at least one firearm.New Zealand has also been comfortable with the idea of restricting access to certain weapons for almost as long as the country has existed. In 1845, colonial leaders tried to stop the flow of muskets into tribal areas.After a mass shooting in 1990, when a man killed 13 people, including two 6-year-olds, after a dispute with his neighbor in the seaside town of Aramoana, New Zealand’s Parliament added additional license requirements for semiautomatic weapons and handguns.“On the whole New Zealand doesn’t prohibit firearms,” Mr. Gillespie said. “New Zealand reacts with regulations.”After a handful of failures to push through stronger rules over the past decade, he and others said, the question now is how far the government will try to go to further control guns.Some gun owners argue the laws on the books are enough, and that no amount of additional legislation would have prevented Friday’s massacre.“First of all, this is insanity,” said Mike Loder, a contributor to Kiwi Gun Blog. “We know why he did it. He did it in revenge for a Muslim killing people with a truck. It wasn’t about guns.” Mr. Loder was referring to the shooter’s own widely reported account of his radicalization.But compared with those in the United States, conversations about guns tend to be calmer and less ideological in New Zealand. Many New Zealanders seem eager to find some middle ground, with the latest round of arguments over the country’s gun laws inevitably being shaped by countervailing forces.On the one hand, with its current gun laws, New Zealand had one of the lowest murder rates in the world, as of a week ago. But the horrific bloodshed at the two mosques has clearly shaken what had been the country’s prevailing sense of safety.“We’ve lived in a utopia, but the world’s caught up with us,” said Chris Cahill, head of the Police Association, a union of police officers. “Our innocence is gone.”A shift may already be rippling through the country.On Sunday morning, Raymond Healey, 49, a member of the Christchurch Pistol Club, arrived at a local shooting range, hoping to get some time firing at targets. He was greeted with a white sign, painted in red capital letters: “range closed.”Wearing olive green fleece, khaki pants and untied boots, Mr. Healey said he wasn’t surprised given news of the shootings. He said the gun backlash was also to be expected.“I can understand why people would want more restrictions,” he said.He added that he’d be willing to consider changes. “There are always improvements that could be made to the law,” Mr. Healey said. “There probably are loopholes.”One of the main ones, experts say, involves how easy it is to turn a legal semiautomatic weapon into an illegal killing machine with magazines of ammunition that go beyond what is allowed.Under New Zealand law, the most common A license allows for the purchase of a semiautomatic rifle with a magazine containing seven bullets. An E license is needed for semiautomatics with larger magazines, and it can only be obtained through a more elaborate process of interviews and references.But there are no restrictions on the purchase of magazines.“Anybody can buy them without a license,” Mr. Healey said. “I thought for a long time you shouldn’t be able to do that.”On Saturday, the police said the gunman had modified a “category A firearm,” suggesting that he purchased a semiautomatic with the basic license then added magazines with illegal levels of firepower.Ross Mason, the chairman of the National Rifle Association of New Zealand, which is not connected to the American N.R.A., also said the purchase of magazines raised issues.But he cautioned against a wider ban on semiautomatic rifles in general.“The reason they became available here is because we were trying to eliminate deer from our forest and bush and other four-legged pests, so there was a lot of shooting of these animals from helicopters,” Mr. Mason said. “You needed to have something to fire shots very quickly.”Out of concern that gun sales might be significantly restricted, Radio New Zealand reported that there was a rush on gun stores this weekend, with people “panic buying” weapons.Prime Minister Ardern seems to be listening, at least for now, to all sides in the debate.She also seems determined to do what the United States Congress has not, which is to act.“Our gun laws will change — now is the time,” Ms. Ardern said Saturday. “People will be seeking change, and I am committed to that.”Reporting was contributed by Emily Steel, Charlotte Graham-McLay and Jamie Tarabay from Christchurch; and Danny Hakim from New York.Want more coverage from Australia and New Zealand? Sign up for the weekly Australia Letter, start your day with your local Morning Briefing and join us in our Facebook group.AdvertisementSupported byStudent OpinionBy Jeremy EngleNote: Students 13 and older are invited to comment here. Adults should post their comments elsewhere on NYTimes.com.On March 15, a gunman opened fire at two mosques in Christchurch, New Zealand, killing 50 people. The terrorist attack appears to have been carried out by a white nationalist who posted a racist manifesto online and streamed live video of the killings on Facebook.On Thursday, Prime Minister Jacinda Ardern of New Zealand announced a national ban on all military-style semiautomatic weapons. You can watch a one-minute video of her announcement here.The United States passed its own assault weapons ban in 1994, in response to mass shootings that had occurred here, but that ban expired in 2004. Since then, many of the most notorious mass shootings in the United States — including the attacks in Las Vegas; Orlando, Fla.; Newtown, Conn.; Sutherland Springs, Tex.; and Parkland, Fla. — have involved semiautomatic weapons.Should the United States follow New Zealand’s example and ban all military-style semiautomatic weapons in an attempt to prevent future mass shootings? Or would such a ban be unconstitutional or impractical here?In “New Zealand to Ban Military-Style Semiautomatic Guns, Jacinda Ardern Says,” Damien Cave and Charlotte Graham-McLay write:CHRISTCHURCH, New Zealand — Prime Minister Jacinda Ardern of New Zealand on Thursday announced a national ban on all military-style semiautomatic weapons, all high-capacity ammunition magazines and all parts that allow weapons to be modified into the kinds of guns used to kill 50 people at two mosques in Christchurch last week.“What we’re banning today are the things used in last Friday’s attack,” she said, adding: “It’s about all of us, it’s in the national interest and it’s about safety.”Ms. Ardern is expected to encounter little resistance to the weapons ban in Parliament; the largest opposition party quickly said it supported the measures.Ms. Ardern said her goal was to eliminate from New Zealand the weapons that the killer used in Christchurch. She emphasized that it would require a buyback of banned weapons in circulation now, plus regulation around firearms and ammunition.“The guns used in these terrorist attacks had important distinguishing features,” she said at a news conference at Parliament in Wellington, the capital. “First, big capacity, and also their delivery. They had the power to shoot continuously, but they also had large capacity magazines.”Ms. Ardern’s plan for immediate gun policy changes, announced six days after a mass shooting, stands in stark contrast to the stalemate and resistance to change that has stymied similar calls for restrictions on firearms in the United States.Many Americans can buy a gun in less than an hour. In New Zealand, the process can take weeks or months.Ms. Ardern’s handling of the massacre and its aftermath have resonated around the world and thrust her into the spotlight as a force on the issue of guns.The shooting in New Zealand comes after the United States has experienced an alarming number of mass shootings in recent years, including the Sandy Hook, Conn., school shooting that took 27 lives in 2012; the Orlando nightclub shooting in 2016, which killed 49; the Las Vegas concert shooting in 2017 that left 58 dead; and the Parkland, Fla., school shooting, which killed 17 people in 2018.Ms. Ardern’s overhauls have been inspired in part by neighboring Australia’s response after a mass shooting in 1996. The article continues:Mr. Alpers said the challenge for New Zealand would mainly be getting the ammunition and guns that already exist out of circulation. Half of Australia’s states had some kind of gun registration plan in place before the 1996 reforms, making it easier for the authorities to know what weapons were out there and what needed to be brought in.New Zealand only registers 4 percent of its weapons. According to the police, about 250,000 people in the country own an estimated 1.2 million to 1.5 million firearms. It is unclear how many of them would be affected by the ban.“New Zealand is at a considerable disadvantage to countries that have had registries, because there’s no way of tracing the firearms because they don’t know who’s got them,” Mr. Alpers said. “We’re relying entirely on the honesty of the gun owner to turn it in.”Ms. Ardern said that fair compensation would be paid to all those who participate.Students, read the entire article, then tell us:— What is your reaction to Prime Minister Ardern’s decision to ban semiautomatic weapons and high-capacity ammunition magazines? Should the United States do the same? If not, how should our country address the issue of guns and mass shootings?— In a related Opinion column, Nicholas Kristof writes:When a terrorist massacred 50 people at two New Zealand mosques last week, Prime Minister Jacinda Ardern immediately grasped the nettle. “I can tell you one thing right now,” she told a news conference. “Our gun laws will change.”That’s what effective leadership looks like. New Zealand’s cabinet has now agreed in principle to overhaul those laws, experts are reviewing ways to make the country safer from firearms and, Ardern promised, “within 10 days of this horrific act of terrorism, we will have announced reforms.”Contrast that with the United States, where just since 1970, more Americans have died from guns (1.45 million, including murders, suicides and accidents) than died in all the wars in American history (1.4 million). More Americans die from guns every 10 weeks than died in the entire Afghanistan and Iraq wars combined, yet we still don’t have gun safety rules as rigorous as New Zealand’s even before the mosques were attacked.Do you agree with Mr. Kristof? Has America lacked leadership on the issue of gun violence? How would you assess the quality of leadership by elected officials in the United States?— New Zealand has a population of 4.6 million and an estimated 1.2 million to 1.5 million firearms. The United States has a population of 327 million people and over 300 million guns. In what ways do you think New Zealand’s weapons ban is relevant to the situation in the United States? Do you think the ban represents a realistic model of legislation that could happen here? Or are there too many obstacles or logistical issues that would make such a ban more difficult to enact?— Additionally, the United States has an explicit amendment protecting gun rights that New Zealand does not. The Second Amendment to the Constitution reads:A well regulated Militia, being necessary to the security of a free State, the right of the people to keep and bear Arms, shall not be infringed.However, the Library of Congress writes, “The meaning of this sentence is not self-evident, and has given rise to much commentary but relatively few Supreme Court decisions.” What do you think these words mean? What relevance should they have for the debate about guns? Do you think a ban on military-style semiautomatic weapons would be constitutional?— In her announcement on Thursday, Ms. Ardern said, “It’s about all of us, it’s in the national interest and it’s about safety.” Do you think it is possible for the government to find a healthy balance between protecting people’s right to own a gun and public safety? Do you believe the government is currently striking the right balance? Why or why not?Other Resources:How to Buy a Gun in 16 CountriesHow Australia, Canada and Other Countries Responded to Mass ShootingsWhat Explains U.S. Mass Shootings? International Comparisons Suggest an Answer6 Stories and Charts to Help You Better Understand Gun Violence in the U.S.From The Learning Network: AdvertisementSupported byBy Julie BosmanAURORA, Ill. — An angry worker who stormed through a suburban Chicago factory shooting his co-workers after being fired was barred from having the handgun he was carrying, the authorities said on Saturday.Gary Martin, 45, who died in a shootout with the police after a rampage on Friday that left five workers dead and at least six other people wounded, had his state weapons permit revoked years ago because of a felony assault conviction, the police in Aurora, Ill., said. Still, they said, Mr. Martin’s gun — a .40-caliber Smith & Wesson handgun with a laser sight — was never taken away.“Some disgruntled person walked in and had access to a firearm that he shouldn’t have had access to,” said Kristen L. Ziman, the chief of police in Aurora, where the shooting took place.[Read more about the shooting here.]Chief Ziman said that the police were trying to determine why Mr. Martin still had a gun, despite having his permit revoked five years ago.According to Illinois gun law, a person must be granted a Firearm Owners Identification card, or FOID, to possess a firearm. At least two million people in the state have the cards.But under the law, the process of removing firearms from people whose cards have been revoked is weak, making it easy for some to keep their weapons with little threat of enforcement or penalty.That appears to have been the case with Mr. Martin, who the police said received a card in January 2014. That March, he applied for a concealed-carry permit, and a background check revealed that he had a felony conviction for aggravated assault in Mississippi from 1995. With that, the Illinois State Police revoked Mr. Martin’s card and mailed him a letter ordering him to relinquish his firearm and card within 48 hours.The statute allows law enforcement agencies to petition the courts to seize weapons if they aren’t turned in, but in many instances, the remaining weapons go unchecked. Experts said that the state rules — without a clear, mandatory enforcement requirement — leave a gaping loophole for those who choose not to give up their guns. In 2016, only about 4,000 of the 11,000 people whose cards were revoked submitted the mandatory reports explaining what they did with their guns, The Chicago Tribune reported in 2017.Sgt. Bill Rowley, a spokesman for the Aurora Police Department, said the police had no record of being notified by the state police that Mr. Martin had not volunteered his firearm as required in 2014. It was unclear whether Mr. Martin, who lived in Aurora at the time of his death, also lived there in 2014.The police on Saturday gave a fuller account of the deadly events inside the Henry Pratt Company warehouse on Friday afternoon, and identified the five workers — all co-workers of Mr. Martin — who were killed.The victims included some of the company’s most experienced workers but also its newest: Josh Pinkard, who was the plant manager of the warehouse, perished in the shooting, as did Trevor Wehner, who was a student at Northern Illinois University and an intern in the company’s human resources department. Mr. Wehner was expected to graduate from college in May. Friday was the first day of his internship, according to officials from Northern Illinois University.“He knew he wanted to work in the H.R. business and was hoping this internship would lead into a full-time job in the future,” said Winter Lane, Mr. Wehner’s girlfriend of more than three years, who grew up with him in the same small town of Serena, in north central Illinois.Everyone there knew Mr. Wehner. He was kind, the most selfless person she had ever met, she said, someone with a big smile and a personality to match. “He always saw the good in everyone,” she said.Also killed, the police said, were Vicente Juarez, a stock room attendant and forklift operator; Clayton Parks, the human resources manager; and Russell Beyer, a mold operator. Officials at Northern Illinois said that Mr. Parks had also graduated from the university, in 2014, and that it was offering counseling help to those in need. (The school, in DeKalb, Ill., was the site of another mass shooting 11 years ago.)Abby Parks, the wife of Clayton Parks, said he was devoted to their son, Axel, who is 8 months old. “The family we created together was Clay’s greatest joy,” she said. “He took his responsibilities as a husband and father very seriously and held those titles above all else.” The couple had been married since 2016.The police first received several 911 calls at 1:24 p.m. on Friday, as frantic callers said there was a shooter at the warehouse. Mr. Martin had been summoned to what the police described as a “termination meeting” at the warehouse where he had worked for at least 15 years. At least two victims were shot at the scene of that meeting.Four minutes later, the police arrived and were confronted by the gunman. Two of the first four officers to arrive were shot and transported to hospitals with injuries that were not life-threatening.According to the police, Mr. Martin then retreated into the 29,000-square-foot building, hiding from officers in a machine shop near the back of the facility. It took about 90 minutes for officers to find, shoot and kill him.Scott Hall, the chief executive of Mueller Water Products, of which the Henry Pratt Company is a subsidiary, said that Friday was “the worst day our company has ever had.”Mr. Martin was being fired on Friday for a “culmination of various workplace rules violations,” he said, declining to describe the violations. The firing came at the end of a “progressive discipline process,” he said.The company conducted a background check upon Mr. Martin’s hiring 15 years ago that did not surface his felony conviction in Mississippi.Before Friday, there was no indication that Mr. Martin was violent. “If we have reason to believe that somebody is going to be violent, we take precautions,” he said. “I can only assume that we did not.”Family members of Mr. Martin arrived at the Aurora police station on Friday afternoon, weeping and hugging one another after officers told them that he was dead.“He was the shooter,” said Tameka Martin, who said she was Mr. Martin’s sister. “He shot officers. If they did shoot him and kill him, they were, I guess, defending themselves.”Ms. Martin said that her brother had told his family that he had lost his job at Henry Pratt. At dinner a few nights ago at their mother’s home, Mr. Martin would barely speak about it. He was “very depressed,” she said.Sarah Mervosh, Julia Jacobs and Richard A. Oppel Jr. contributed reporting from New York, and Doris Burke contributed research from New York.AdvertisementSupported byBy The Associated PressBEIJING — Five people died Monday in a shooting in China's Inner Mongolia region, authorities said.An individual shot and killed five people before being apprehended by police, authorities said in Inner Mongolia's eastern Kailu county.Police did not describe the suspect, provide a motive or say whether anyone else was injured.AdvertisementSupported byBy The Associated PressWELLINGTON, New Zealand — New Zealand lawmakers have voted overwhelmingly in favor of new gun control measures during the first stage of a bill they hope to rush into law by the end of next week.The bill would ban the types of weapons a gunman used to kill 50 people at two mosques last month.Only one lawmaker from the 120 that sit in Parliament voted against the legislation in a bipartisan display of unity. Tuesday's vote was the first of three that lawmakers must pass before the bill becomes law.AdvertisementSupported byBy The New York Times[Click here for the latest updates.]• New Zealand grappled with grief and horror on Sunday as the death toll rose to 50 people two days after a gunman opened fire  at two mosques in the city of Christchurch. The terrorist attack appeared to have been carried out by a white nationalist who posted a racist manifesto online and streamed live video of the killings on Facebook.• A 28-year-old man from Australia was charged with murder and appeared Saturday morning in a Christchurch courtroom. Court papers identified him as Brenton Harrison Tarrant. The New Zealand police said he would face additional charges, and were considering charging him under the country’s Terrorism Suppression Act.• Minutes before the shooting began on Friday, Prime Minister Jacinda Ardern was emailed a copy of the manifesto purported to be from the gunman, her office said. Many news outlets and lawmakers also received the email.• Ms. Ardern promised that New Zealand’s “gun laws will change” and that her cabinet would discuss options for how, though she did not offer specifics. The gunman had five firearms, including two semiautomatic weapons, she said. But the issue could be a divisive one in a country where an extraordinary number of people own weapons, with few restrictions.Thirty-four victims of the shootings remain in Christchurch Hospital, 12 of them in critical condition, officials said Sunday.A 4-year-old girl also remains in critical condition at a children’s hospital in Auckland, where she was flown after the attack.A Christchurch Hospital spokesman, David Meates, said that on Saturday the hospital treated nine new victims of the Friday attack. They arrived with cuts, embedded glass fragments and injuries to their backs, knees and feet.Mr. Meates said the hospital was running seven operating theaters on Sunday instead of the usual three.“Many of these people need multiple surgeries due to the complex nature of their injuries, and the need to provide a number of shorter surgeries in a phased way so patients have the best chance of recovery,” he said.The airline Air New Zealand said one of its employees, Lilik Abdul Hamid, was among those killed.The company’s chief executive, Christopher Luxon, said in a statement that Mr. Hamid had been an aircraft maintenance engineer with Air New Zealand for 16 years.“He first got to know the team even earlier when he worked with our aircraft engineers in a previous role overseas,” Mr. Luxon said. “The friendships he made at that time led him to apply for a role in Air New Zealand and make the move to Christchurch.”Mr. Hamid is survived by his wife and two children, Mr. Luxon said.It was the first public announcement of one of the victim’s names. The police have yet to release a list of those who died.The police said on Sunday that the death toll had risen to 50 as officials discovered another body at the mosque on Deans Avenue, where most of the victims were killed. Another 50 people were injured.“As of last night we were able to take all of the victims from both of those scenes and in doing so we have located a further victim,” said Mike Bush, New Zealand’s police commissioner.Mr. Bush said a list of victims’ names has been compiled with the help of senior religious leaders and had been shared with family members. He said the list was an informal one, though, and that officials would not confirm the names publicly until the bodies had been formally identified.The bodies have not yet been released to the victims’ families, but Mr. Bush said he was conscious that Muslim religious practice requires prompt burial.“We are aware of the cultural and religious needs, so we are doing that as quickly and sensitively as possible,” he said.Police officials say it took 36 minutes from when they received the first call about a shooting at a mosque to when the suspect was taken in custody.“That is an incredibly fast response time,” said John Price, commander of the district police. “You have a mobile offender across a large metropolitan city, and I am very happy with the response of our staff.”During a news briefing on Saturday, officials provided a partial timeline but many details remained unclear. Officials said the gunman arrived at a second mosque, where he continued his rampage, seven minutes after leaving the first.The suspect was later arrested in a car, which was carrying improvised explosive devices, by two police officers. Mike Bush, New Zealand’s police commissioner, said the officers prevented further deaths.“Those two police officers acted with absolute courage,” Mr. Bush said on Sunday. “I’m so proud of what they’ve done. They have prevented further deaths and risked their lives doing so.”The shooting has vaulted New Zealand into what could be a divisive political battle over gun control in the country, where an extraordinary number of people own weapons, with few restrictions. The authorities say the suspect in the assault used five guns he had acquired legally, including two semiautomatic assault weapons.Within hours of the Friday killings, Prime Minister Jacinda Ardern promised changes to New Zealand gun laws and said regulations around semiautomatic weapons was “one of the issues.” New Zealand’s attorney general, David Parker, appeared to go beyond that statement at a vigil for the victims on Saturday, indicating that semiautomatic weapons would be banned, but he later backtracked. Mr. Parker told Radio New Zealand that had been trying to reflect Ms. Ardern’s comments that “we need to ban some semiautomatics, perhaps all of them.”“Those decisions have yet to be taken, but the prime minister has signaled that we are going to look at that issue,” Mr. Parker told the broadcaster.Licensed New Zealand gun owners pushed back. The Kiwi Gun Blog, a gun-rights online publication, said that among the mosque shooter’s goals, one was “to cause the gun rights of responsible New Zealanders to be attacked.” It said “our prime minister is now capitulating with him.”There is no dispute that acquiring a military-style semiautomatic weapon is relatively easy in New Zealand, where guns are plentiful. According to a 2017 small arms survey, there are more than 1.2 million firearms among the population of 4.6 million.Under New Zealand law, anyone 16 or older may seek a firearms license, and anyone 18 or older who has applied for a firearms license can seek a permit to possess a military-style semiautomatic weapon.In the United States, the National Rifle Association, a leading advocate of gun-owner rights, issued its first statement on the attack, denouncing the killer while saying nothing about the weapons used.“It doesn’t matter if these senseless tragedies occur in the United States or abroad, our deepest sympathies are with the victims and their families,” said Andrew Arulanandam, a spokesman for the group. “This was the act of a monster. To the extent the N.R.A. is ridiculed for extending our deepest sympathies to those impacted by this horrific event, we make no apologies for our thoughts, words or prayers.”At times over the years, the N.R.A. has held up New Zealand’s relatively high rate of gun ownership and low crime as proof that gun laws are misguided, but New Zealand’s laws are already more strict than the United States, which also has a higher rate of gun ownership.The N.R.A. has tracked efforts in recent years to further tighten gun laws in New Zealand.Cam Edwards, a host on NRATV, the organization’s online streaming service, blamed social media for the Christchurch massacre.“What’s really changed in our world over the last 20 years isn’t the design of firearms,” he said in a lengthy Twitter thread. “It’s the revolutionary way we have of communicating with strangers, creating online tribes and subcultures that simply didn’t exist in large numbers a generation ago.”Abdul Aziz, 48, was in the Linwood mosque praying with his four sons when he heard gunshots. He immediately knew something was wrong.Rather than running from the sound, he ran toward it and grabbed the first thing he could find — a credit card machine — and flung it at the attacker. He tried to distract the attacker in a move that many fellow worshipers have described as heroic, weaving through cars in the parking lot, attempting to draw the gunman’s attention away from the mosque.Latef Alabi, the acting imam of Linwood, told The Associated Press he believed the death toll would have been far higher at the mosque without Mr. Aziz’s actions.Mr. Aziz said he saw the attacker drop one of his guns and managed to grab it but when he pulled the trigger, the gun was empty. When the gunman went to his car, presumably to grab more ammunition, Mr. Aziz said he threw the gun at the assailant’s windshield, shattering the glass. The assailant sped away.Mr. Aziz remained humble, saying in an interview with The New York Times that anyone in his position would have done the same. “I was prepared to give my life to save another life,” he said.Originally from Kabul, Afghanistan, Mr. Aziz lived in Australia for 27 years after having fled the violence of his home country. He moved to New Zealand a few years ago, describing it as a beautiful country.New Zealand’s police commissioner, Mike Bush, provided new details of the attack on Friday night, saying that 41 people had been killed at Al Noor mosque, in the center of the city, and seven at Linwood mosque, about three miles away. Another victim died at Christchurch Hospital, he said.David Meates, the chief executive of the Canterbury District Health Board, said that 48 people, including young children, were being treated for injuries at the hospital. Mr. Bush said on Saturday morning that two of them were in critical condition.[How to help the victims of the Christchurch shootings.]The police said on Friday that three men and one woman had been taken into custody, but Mr. Bush lowered the total number to three on Saturday morning, indicating that someone had been released.In a Christchurch courtroom that was closed to the public for security reasons, police officers in bulletproof vests brought in Brenton Harrison Tarrant, who has been charged with one count of murder in connection with the massacre. The police said he would face additional charges.Mr. Tarrant, 28, short with thinning brown hair, handcuffed and wearing white prison clothing, looked around the courtroom but said nothing as District Court Judge Paul Kellar ordered him held for a further hearing on April 5.Regional officials have said that Mr. Tarrant is an Australian citizen. Court papers listed his New Zealand address as Dunedin City, which is about 280 miles south of Christchurch.Richard Peters, his court-appointed lawyer, said Mr. Tarrant had indicated he might represent himself. Asked how Mr. Tarrant had reacted to what he is facing, Mr. Peters said, “He seemed to be quite aware of where he is and what he’s doing.”At the same time the charging document for Mr. Tarrant was handed out to reporters, a second court filing was distributed that said Daniel John Burrough, 18, of Christchurch, had been charged with “intent to excite hostility or ill-will.” Court officials would not elaborate on how the two cases were related, if at all.In addition to Mr. Tarrant, three other people were arrested in connection with the attacks, although one was apparently released. Few details have been offered about them.Prime Minister Jacinda Ardern was among dozens of lawmakers and media who were emailed a white nationalist manifesto purportedly from the gunman minutes before the shootings began on Friday, her office said.Andrew Campbell, a spokesman for Ms. Ardern, said a generic email address for the prime minister was among about 70 to which the email was sent. The “vast majority” of the recipients were news outlets, and others were lawmakers, he said on Saturday.Mr. Campbell said he believed the document was the same one that has been circulating online since the attacks. He said action was taken “almost immediately” according to protocol, “by sending it to parliamentary security, who then would pass it on the police.” He did not specify whether the email had been seen or forwarded before the shooting began.On Saturday, Ms. Ardern said that the suspect held a gun license in New Zealand and that, according to what she had been told, he “was able to legally acquire the guns that he held.”He had five firearms, including two semiautomatic weapons, she said.“That will give you an indication of why we need to change our gun laws,” she said at a news conference. “Our gun laws will change — now is the time.”But Ms. Ardern did not offer specifics about how the laws might change, saying only that her cabinet would discuss the issue. Attorney General David Parker, who had appeared to tell a crowd that New Zealand would ban semiautomatic weapons, told Radio New Zealand that regulation of the guns was “one of the issues” to be considered.“Those decisions have yet to be taken but the prime minister has signaled that we are going to look at that issue,” he said.While New Zealand’s laws governing the purchase of semiautomatic firearms are more restrictive than those in the United States, the country is much freer with firearms than Australia is, allowing most guns to be purchased without requiring them to be tracked.“New Zealand is almost alone with the United States in not registering 96 percent of its firearms — and those are its most common firearms, the ones most used in crimes,” said Philip Alpers of GunPolicy.org, a clearinghouse for gun law data worldwide. “There are huge gaps in New Zealand law, even if some of its laws are strong.”Many of the people killed in the attacks were the breadwinners in their families, Ms. Ardern said after meeting with victims’ relatives on Saturday.The victims were “predominantly from the ages of 20 to 60ish — and a large number of men,” Ms. Ardern told reporters at Hagley College, a school near the hospital where family members were gathering.Ms. Ardern said a government compensation system would help families left without income. In the meantime, mosques will continue to receive police protection, she said.A 17-minute video that was streamed live on Facebook shows part of the attack.The clip, which appeared to have been taken from a helmet camera worn by the gunman, begins behind the wheel of a car. A man, whose face can occasionally be seen in the rearview mirror, drives through the streets of Christchurch before pulling up in front of Al Noor mosque, beside the sprawling Hagley Park.[Read more about the suspect, who seems to have been performing for, and inspired by, social media.]A live video posted to social media appeared to show the attack at Al Noor Mosque, where 42 people were killed. The clip appeared to have been taken from a camera worn by a gunman.3 The gunman’s video shows him driving away six minutes after the first shot.1 The gunman parked inthe alley next to the mosque,according to the live video.Al NoorMosqueDeans Ave.2 He openedfire at around1:40 p.m.Re-entered mosque and began firingResumed firingoutside the mosqueShot abystanderFirst shot firedParkedExited mosqueGot new gun fromparked carExitedmosqueDroveaway1 min.later234563 The gunman’s video shows him driving away six minutes after the first shot.1 The gunman parked inthe alley next to the mosque,according to the live video.SouthHagleyParkAl NoorMosqueDeans Ave.2 He opened fire ataround 1:40 p.m.Re-enteredmosque andbegan firingResumed firingoutside the mosqueShot abystanderFirst shot firedParkedExited mosqueGot a new gunfrom the parked carLeft mosqueDroveaway1 minute later234563 The gunman’s video shows him driving away six minutes after the first shot.1 The gunman parked inthe alley next to the mosque,according to the live video.Al NoorMosqueDeans Ave.South Hagley Park2 He opened fire ataround 1:40 p.m.Resumed firingoutside the mosqueRe-entered mosqueand began firingShot abystanderFirst shot firedParkedExited mosqueGot a new gunfrom the parked carLeft mosqueDroveaway1 minute later23456By Jin Wu and Allison McCann | Note: Times are local time.He approaches the mosque on foot, his weapon visible, and begins shooting at people at the entrance. What follows is nearly two harrowing minutes of his firing on worshipers.At one point, the gunman exits the mosque and fires in both directions down the sidewalk before returning to his car for another gun — which, like the others, was inscribed with numbers, symbols or messages. When he re-enters the mosque, he shoots several bodies at close range.After another few minutes, he returns to his vehicle and drives away.“There wasn’t even time to aim, there was so many targets,” he says at one point, as the sirens of an emergency response vehicle blare in the background.An earlier version of this article misstated a function of the International Civil Aviation Organization. While it does manage the International Convention on Civil Aviation, the agency does not have power to impose sanctions, which first must be proposed, agreed to and set in motion by sovereign states.Reporting was contributed by Charlotte Graham-McLay, Damien Cave and Jamie Tarabay from Christchurch, New Zealand; Megan Specia, Jason Bailey, Rick Gladstone and Danny Hakim from New York; Daniel Victor and Tiffany May from Hong Kong; Alan Yuhas from London; Jacqueline Williams from Sydney and Isabella Kwai from Grafton, Australia; Sheera Frenkel from San Francisco; and Jonathan Weisman from Washington.AdvertisementSupported byBy The Associated PressLAS VEGAS — Democratic presidential candidate Beto O'Rourke said Sunday that his personal use and ownership of firearms taught him the responsibility of having guns and can help bridge politically fraught discussions about gun control in the U.S.The former Texas congressman told The Associated Press in an interview Sunday in Las Vegas that he inherited guns belonging to his great uncle, who had taught him how to shoot and handle a firearm responsibly. He says he and his wife, Amy, who grew up on a New Mexico ranch and used guns, made sure their children also knew how to safely handle guns."Not only are they proficient, they also understand the responsibility that comes with using or owning a firearm," he said.O'Rourke, speaking at a coffee shop 5 miles (8 kilometers) away from the site of a 2017 mass shooting on the Las Vegas Strip, said he'd like to use his personal experience and the traditions of gun ownership in his home state of Texas to "lead the country on sensible gun safety policy" that reduces violence."It is not a politically easy thing to talk about, but I think if we talk about it from experience, out of pride and responsible gun ownership and ensuring that weapons of war are kept on the battlefield and they're not used in our schools and concerts and communities, we'll save a lot more lives and will do nothing to infringe upon any American's Second Amendment rights," he said.He has called for universal background checks, a federal assault weapons ban, the closing of loopholes that allow someone to purchase a gun before their background check is completed and a ban on bump stocks, the device used by the Las Vegas shooter to mimic a fully automatic weapon.The El Paso native is on a two-day swing through Nevada, an early Western caucus state with a significant Latino population. At packed gatherings in living rooms, a coffee shop and a Mexican restaurant, O'Rourke praised the role immigrants play in his hometown and in America and occasionally switched to Spanish as he addressed bilingual members of the audience. Before speaking inside the coffee shop, he climbed on top of his rental van and spoke to dozens waiting outside who couldn't fit in the building.As he spoke to an AP reporter, he was repeatedly stopped by people who wished him well and asked to take a picture, which he always obliged. One man brought him a copy of a newspaper with O'Rourke's picture on it and introduced the candidate to his dog.O'Rourke, who has called for legalizing marijuana, said he has not yet visited one of Nevada's legal marijuana dispensaries to see what legalization looks like in practice, but he would like to do so.The three-term congressman also said he doesn't have enough experience with the debate over decriminalizing sex work to give an intelligent answer on whether prostitution should be legalized — as it is in Nevada — but that he'd like to talk to those involved about it, including the sex workers.O'Rourke has been striking a more centrist message than some of the candidates in the field.The Republican National Committee said in a statement Sunday that his policies, like an embrace of the "Green New Deal" climate change plan and a past call to tear down the U.S.-Mexico border wall, show he "is on a collision course with everyday Americans who will reject his extremist views that offer no substance or solution."As he's conducted a marathon tour of early voting and swing states in recent days, O'Rourke has told voters he wants to bring people together and highlighted his plans to visit areas where voters strongly supported President Donald Trump in the 2016 election.O'Rourke said he thinks he understands the reasoning behind the Democratic National Committee's move to bar Fox News from hosting any Democratic presidential debates, saying it would avoid rewarding a network that has "functionally been a partner to President Trump and his administration, stoking paranoia and fear and anxiety, trafficking in some of the bitterness and meanness and smallness that defines so much of this administration and frankly our national politics."AdvertisementSupported byBy The Associated PressFAYETTEVILLE, N.C. — Authorities say a juvenile has been charged in the shooting death of a newborn baby at a home in North Carolina.The Cumberland County Sheriff's Office said Sunday that the juvenile is in custody in the shooting death Friday night of a 21-day-old infant in Fayetteville.The sheriff's office says the baby was pronounced dead at a medical center where it was taken Friday night.Authorities declined to identify the juvenile, disclose further details of the shooting or the charge or charges involved.A study published in the American Journal of Public Health estimated that 43 percent of U.S. homes with children and guns had at least one unlocked firearm, meaning it wasn't kept in a locked place nor protected by a trigger lock or other mechanism.AdvertisementSupported byConservative judges worry that the Second Amendment has become “a second-class right.”By Linda GreenhouseContributing Opinion Writer A specter is haunting the Supreme Court  — disrespect for the Second Amendment. Perhaps you haven’t realized that the Supreme Court’s disinclination to expand on its landmark 2008 decision creating an individual right to gun ownership means that the justices are treating the Second Amendment as a “second-class right.” A “watered-down right.” A “disfavored right.”If you are unaware of these outlandish claims, then you haven’t tuned into the rising chorus of judicial voices demanding more from the Supreme Court than gun fanciers already won in that intensely disputed 5-to-4 decision a decade ago, District of Columbia v. Heller.Why is this happening, and why now? To understand why the “second-class right” meme is suddenly penetrating the judicial conversation, we have to begin with Justice Clarence Thomas. He is not the first member of the current Supreme Court to use the phrase; Justice Samuel Alito Jr. used it in his 2010 opinion that extended the analysis of the Heller decision, which had applied only to Washington, D.C., as a federal enclave, to the states. The court was being asked, Justice Alito wrote in McDonald v. City of Chicago, “to treat the right recognized in Heller as a second-class right,” which he said the court would not do.But it is Justice Thomas who has taken up the phrase as a weapon, using it in a series of opinions over the past four years to accuse his colleagues of failing in their duty to keep pushing back against limitations on gun ownership and use. The opinions were all dissents from the court’s decisions not to hear particular gun-rights appeals.In 2015, for example, he wrote that the United States Court of Appeals for the Seventh Circuit had been wrong to uphold an Illinois city’s ban on assault weapons, and that by refusing to hear the appeal, his colleagues had failed to “prevent the Seventh Circuit from relegating the Second Amendment to a second-class right.” Last year, objecting to the court’s decision not to hear a challenge to California’s 10-day waiting period for gun purchases, Justice Thomas mused that “I suspect that four members of this court would vote to review a 10-day waiting period for abortions.” He declared, “The right to keep and bear arms is apparently this court’s constitutional orphan.” In another opinion, this time joined by Justice Neil Gorsuch, Justice Thomas said it was “indefensible” and “untenable” for the Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit to have upheld California’s ban on carrying concealed weapons. By turning down the appeal, he wrote, the justices were enabling “the treatment of the Second Amendment as a disfavored right.” And in a remarkable concluding paragraph to his eight-page opinion, he added:“For those of us who work in marbled halls, guarded constantly by a vigilant and dedicated police force, the guarantees of the Second Amendment might seem antiquated and superfluous. But the Framers made a clear choice: They reserved to all Americans the right to bear arms for self-defense. I do not think we should stand by idly while a state denies its citizens that right, particularly when their very lives may depend on it.”By calling attention to Justice Thomas’s Second Amendment crusade, I want to make four points.First, he’s simply wrong. The court decided Heller to vindicate what the majority described as a “core” Second Amendment right — the right of an individual to keep a handgun at home for self-defense. That’s all. Whatever else the Second Amendment enables people to do with their guns was left open. As Justice Antonin Scalia observed in his majority opinion, “It is not a right to keep and carry any weapon whatsoever in any manner whatsoever and for whatever purpose.”Maybe Justice Scalia included that and a few other disclaimers in order to stay within the comfort zone of a member of his narrowest of majorities, probably Justice Anthony M. Kennedy. Or maybe he was just kicking the can down the road. In any event, it’s certainly not the case that justices who decline to overturn a 10-day waiting period can be accurately labeled hypocrites who are content to hide in their marble palace while leaving the populace unprotected.Nor is the Second Amendment absolutism that Justice Thomas is calling for reflected in the way the Supreme Court interprets most other constitutional guarantees. Judge Bruce Selya of the Court of Appeals for the First Circuit made this point in a majority opinion in November rejecting a challenge to a provision of the Massachusetts gun licensing statute. “Even though the Second Amendment right is fundamental,” Judge Selya, an appointee of President Ronald Reagan, wrote in his opinion for a unanimous panel, “the plaintiffs have offered us no valid reason to treat it more deferentially than other important constitutional rights.” That decision, Gould v. Morgan, will shortly be appealed to the Supreme Court.My second point is to underscore the role Justice Thomas plays in creating this rhetorical tidal wave. He is a Federalist Society icon and a hero to many young conservative lawyers, including the 10 former Thomas law clerks whom President Trump has already appointed to federal judgeships. (A dozen other former Thomas clerks hold important nonjudicial positions in the administration.) They and their colleagues among the new Trump judges, many of whom clerked for other conservative justices, are the ones who are making the “second-class right” mantra a standard feature of any Second Amendment dissent — in other words, not only that a particular majority opinion is incorrect, but that it is part of a dangerous trend that the Supreme Court, by implication if not explicitly, needs to address right now.For example, the full 15-member Court of Appeals for the Fifth Circuit recently refused to reconsider a decision by a three-judge panel to uphold the longstanding federal ban on interstate sales of handguns. Dissenting from that refusal, Judge James C. Ho, a former Thomas clerk who joined the Fifth Circuit last year, cited Justice Thomas’s opinions in observing, “Yet the Second Amendment continues to be treated as a ‘second-class’ right.” His dissent included a subtle dig at Chief Justice John Roberts, who notably has not joined Justice Thomas’s Second Amendment choir. The government rationale for the ban on interstate handgun sales is that while federally licensed firearm dealers can be expected to know the laws of their own state, they may not be familiar with laws of other states and so may not know whether an out-of-state purchaser is legally entitled to own a gun.That is not sufficient justification for the ban, Judge Ho wrote; if dealers could learn their own state’s laws, they could learn other states’ laws as well. “Put simply, the way to require compliance with state handgun laws is to require compliance with state handgun laws,” he wrote in a riff on the chief justice’s much-discussed line in a 2007 school integration case: “The way to stop discrimination on the basis of race is to stop discriminating on the basis of race.”Judge Ho’s Fifth Circuit colleague Don R. Willett, another new member of the court, observed in his own dissenting opinion in the same case, “The Second Amendment is neither second class, nor second rate, nor second tier.” An appeal in that case, Mance v. Whitaker, is now pending at the Supreme Court, and the justices will decide this month or next whether to accept it.Another new judge, Stephanos Bibas, dissented last month from a decision by a panel of the Court of Appeals for the Third Circuit that upheld a New Jersey law limiting a firearm magazine to 10 rounds of ammunition. He said the state had failed to provide sufficient evidence that “specifically links large magazines to mass-shooting deaths.” Acknowledging that five other federal circuit courts have also upheld limits on magazine sizes, Judge Bibas observed that while judges were understandably concerned about gun violence, “they err in subjecting the Second Amendment to different, watered-down rules and demanding little if any proof.”“The Second Amendment is an equal part of the Bill of Rights,” Judge Bibas wrote. “We may not water it down and balance it away based on our own sense of wise policy.” That case is likely to be appealed to the Supreme Court. The New Jersey affiliate of the National Rifle Association, which brought the case, is first seeking review by the full Third Circuit.The 49-year-old Judge Bibas, a former law professor, won plaudits for his dissenting opinion. “It is easy to see why President Trump chose to appoint him,” said an article on the website ammoland.com that appeared under the headline: “Third Circuit: Second Amendment Is a Second Rate Right.” John O. McGinnis, a well-known conservative professor at Northwestern University Law School, writing on the Law and Liberty website, called Judge Bibas’s dissent “the judicial equivalent of a perfect game, a first-round knockout, or a checkmate within 10 moves.” He added, “It will not be the last opinion of the Trump appellate judges that will shake the judiciary from its dogmatic slumber.”My third point is this: Professor McGinniss may well be right, at least when it comes to the Second Amendment. The substitution of Brett Kavanaugh for Justice Kennedy may do the trick. On his former court, the Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit, Justice Kavanaugh took an aggressive gun-rights position, dissenting in 2011 from a decision that upheld the district’s ban on certain assault rifles. Calling the majority’s analytical approach to the case “especially inappropriate,” then-Judge Kavanaugh wrote: “A ban on a class of arms is not an ‘incidental’ regulation. It is equivalent to a ban on a category of speech.” As a matter of constitutional doctrine, I understand his argument: that a right deemed by the Supreme Court to be fundamental, whether under the First Amendment or the Second, is entitled to the highest level of judicial protection. Nonetheless, to analogize possession of assault rifles to the right to free speech is a provocative move.The two conservative judges who made up the majority on the three-judge panel, Douglas Ginsburg and Karen LeCraft Henderson, were sufficiently provoked by Judge Kavanaugh’s 52-page dissent that they added to their own opinion an unusual six-page “appendix” for the specific purpose of contesting his arguments. “The dissent mischaracterizes the question before us,” Judge Ginsburg wrote for himself and Judge Henderson. “We simply do not read Heller as foreclosing every ban on every possible sub-class of handguns or, for that matter, a ban on a sub-class of rifles.”Justice Thomas himself has cited Judge Kavanaugh’s dissenting opinion favorably. It would hardly be surprising for Justice Kavanaugh to return the favor and join the crusade.And that brings me to my final point. The Supreme Court’s appetite for expanding the Second Amendment, if such an appetite develops, will be wildly out of sync with the mood of the country. As The Times reported last month, based on data compiled by a gun-control advocacy group, public support for gun-control measures is surging. State legislatures passed 69 gun-control measures in 2018, more than three times the number in the previous year. More than half the states enacted at least one, while 90 percent of bills the National Rifle Association backed at the state level were defeated. Even the Trump administration has caught the trend, with its announcement last month of a ban on bump stocks, the cheap attachments that turn ordinary rifles into something close to machine guns and that the Las Vegas killer used to commit mass murder a year ago. The ban, to take effect in March, has already drawn at least two lawsuits. Perhaps these lawsuits will be a step too far even for the Second Amendment newbies on the federal bench. Or maybe not.Does it matter if the public and the Supreme Court are running in opposite directions? It’s good news to anyone who would like to accelerate the collapse of public confidence in the one organ of government that at the moment seems to stand between us and disaster. For the rest of us, it’s one more thing to worry about as the new year begins.AdvertisementSupported byBy The Associated PressBOISE, Idaho — The largest supplier of bump stocks turned in its entire remaining inventory to be destroyed — some 60,000 devices. Washington state's buyback program was so popular it ran out of money. One dealer held a "Viking funeral" for his last bump stock, pouring a can of beer on it and then melting it down with a flamethrower.A nationwide ban took effect Tuesday on bump stocks, the attachment used by the gunman in the 2017 Las Vegas massacre to make his weapons fire rapidly like machine guns.How many of the estimated half-million devices believed to be in circulation in the U.S. are still around is anyone's guess, but in the weeks leading up to the ban, there were signs that many were destroyed or turned in as required.Anyone in possession of a bump stock from now on can be charged with a federal offense punishable by up to 10 years in prison.The Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives outlawed the attachments at President Donald Trump's direction after the Las Vegas gunman rained fire from his high-rise hotel suite on concertgoers, killing 58 people in the deadliest mass shooting in modern U.S. history.On Thursday, the Supreme Court declined to put the ban on hold.As the prohibition drew near, RW Arms in Fort Worth, Texas, featured a countdown clock on its website and heavily promoted last chances to buy the accessories. By the time the ban took effect, RW Arms was left with 60,000, probably worth millions, since they sell for around $150 to $250 each.The company turned over crates of them to the ATF, and a video showed boxes being loaded onto a conveyer belt and fed into an industrial grinder.Washington state set aside $150,000 to offer owners $150 for each device they turned in to police. Within weeks, the money had been used up.The ATF declined to say how many people brought their bump stocks to an ATF office.T.J. Kirgin, owner of a firearms tactical gear company in St. Peters, Missouri, said that in the weeks before the measure went into effect, he made one last sweep through his warehouse to make sure he didn't have any more devices left.And then he took his very last one and with some friends held a mock funeral for it, reducing it to a hunk of melted plastic embedded in a rock.While gun control activists welcomed the end of the line for a device blamed for horrifying carnage, Kirgin called it not just the day bump stocks died but the day freedom died."If they can do this with a piece of plastic, then they'll be able to do it with another piece of plastic and another piece of metal, another piece of plastic," he said. "And it's just systematically taking away Second Amendment rights."AdvertisementSupported byBy The Associated PressNEW YORK — El Chapo, the fashionista?The convicted drug lord and his wife have stylish future plans: Creating clothing with the brand name "El Chapo."The New York Daily News reports that 61-year-old Joaquin Guzman and his 29-year-old wife, Emma Coronel Aispuro, are working together on the project.She tells the newspaper that his signature would be part of the brand logo. And there's already an official website.El Chapo was found guilty in February of murder conspiracy charges, drug trafficking, money laundering and firearms possession. He's awaiting sentencing and could spend the rest of his life in prison.But living behind bars may not be a deal-breaker when it comes to fashion with the kind of edgy image that's sexy to some people.AdvertisementSupported byBy The Associated PressANCHORAGE, Alaska — Filthy Fuhrer and five other members of a white supremacist gang that was spawned in prisons in Alaska, Arizona and Colorado have been charged in the gruesome beating death of a member whose Nazi tattoo was burned off his rib cage with a hot knife.Fuhrer, who legally changed his name from Timothy Lobdell, and the others sporting tattoos like iron crosses, swastikas or Schultzstaffel (SS) lightning bolt tattoos also face federal racketeering charges of kidnapping and assault in the August 2017 beating death of Michael Staton, who went by the gang nickname Steak Knife. Court documents did not list attorneys for the men charged.Two others, Nicholas Kozorra and Dustin Clowers, have previously pleaded guilty to murder charges in Staton's death. Those plea agreements were recently unsealed.Bryan Schroder, the U.S. attorney in Alaska, said at a news conference in Anchorage on Wednesday that 14 other members of the 1488 prison gang or its associates have been charged or already sentenced in the federal investigation for offenses like being a felon in possession of a firearm, mail theft or distributing drugs or firearms.The gang got its start in 2010 among 50 to 100 prisoners either serving time in Alaska facilities or those shipped out-of-state to serve their sentences in Arizona or Colorado. Once members are paroled from prison, they are to report to leaders in what they call "Free Alaska.""Recently, the 1488s structure and influence expanded to rural and suburban areas throughout Alaska," the court documents say."If you see those kind of severe tattoos on people in your neighborhood, then maybe you want to let local law enforcement know, because there might be something going on," Schroder said.The name of the gang, 1488, refers to different tenets of white supremacy, according to court documents. The "14" refers to the 14 words in a white nationalist creed: "We must secure the existence of our people and a future for white children."There are two possible meanings for the last part of the gang's name. The 88 could reference the 88 precepts outlined by white supremacist David Lane, or they could stand for "Heil Hitler," since H is the eighth letter of the alphabet.They require all members to "be white, look white and act white."Members adorn themselves with Nazi-style tattoos, but the most coveted is awarded to so-called "made" members, who gain full membership by committing an act of violence on behalf of the gang.The 1488 "patch" tattoo is an iron cross superimposed over a swastika, and is tattooed on the right side of the ribcage.This was the tattoo that was burned off Staton's body the night he died in August 2017.According to Clowers' plea agreement, gang members suspected Staton had been stealing drugs and a Hells Angels' vest from Craig King, who is also charged. All the men were out of jail at this time, but Clowers was on ankle monitoring.Staton was beaten by four men, and his hands and feet were bound with duct tape and rope.He was delivered to a duplex in Wasilla, about 40 miles north of Anchorage. King and his wife lived on one side. The other side was vacant but prepared for the beating with walls and floor covered with painter's plastic.Inside, court documents say, Staton was further beaten before Clowers and two others heated the knife with a propane torch and took turns burning off Staton's 1488 patch."At that point Staton was still alive but was badly beaten," court documents say. His body was rolled in the carpet and the plastic, and put in the back of a vehicle and driven off.The gang gets its money from the illegal trafficking of drugs and firearms, and members used violence including murder, assault and obstruction of justice to protect and enhance their power, officials said.One of its goals was to enlist new members, recruited both inside prisons and outside. New recruits had to be sponsored by an existing member, but they would not accept someone for their sheer hustle, money or friendship."Instead, they claimed that only 'violence and unquestionable loyalty' could earn a patch," court documents say.A recruit was observed for at least 14 months before the membership cast a final vote. The vote had to be unanimous for a man to become a member.The gang didn't accept gay members, "rats" or people who had been charged with sex offenses, the documents say.Women are not allowed membership in the 1488. But they can be associates, and could be expected to smuggle drugs into imprisoned members.Alaska had inmates in Arizona and Colorado prior to 2013, said Sylvan Robb with the Department of Corrections.Alaska Gov. Mike Dunleavy, as part of his budget, proposed sending at least 500 inmates to out-of-state prisons as a potential way to save money. A House subcommittee recently rejected the idea, with House Finance Committee Co-chair Tammie Wilson saying the administration provided little information for how that would work.AdvertisementSupported byBy The Associated PressFORT WORTH, Texas — A Texas retailer of now-banned bump stocks has transferred about 60,000 of the gun-related items to the federal government to be destroyed.RW Arms of Fort Worth turned over the bump stocks to the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives. The products will be shredded and recycled.ATF agents were present as crates of new RW Arms bump stops were delivered to a shredding facility on Tuesday, the day the ban took effect.AdvertisementSupported byBy The Associated PressLAWRENCE, Kan. — Dashcam video released Monday shows a Kansas police officer shooting and wounding a man in a case in which the rookie officer told investigators she mistakenly fired her firearm instead of her Taser.The video provided in response to an open records request is from the patrol vehicle of an officer who pulled over 35-year-old Akira Lewis for a suspected seatbelt violation in May 2018 near downtown Lawrence, the Lawrence Journal-World report ed. Lewis is heard in the video telling the white officer that he was pulled over because he is black and insists on seeing a supervisor. When he refuses to provide identification and continues arguing, backup officer Brindley Blood, who also is white, was summoned.She is seen shooting Lewis when he punches and tackles the officer who initiated the traffic stop. Blood, who resigned from the police force in January after being placed on paid leave, is charged with aggravated battery. Lewis was treated at a hospital and is charged with several misdemeanors, including battery against a law enforcement officer.The affidavit in the case against Blood said she didn't realize she had shot Lewis until she looked for the Taser wires to see if they had hit their mark and realized there weren't any. She said during her interview with investigators, "I shot, shot him, I pulled my firearm instead of my Taser," the affidavit said.The city initially denied the Journal-World's request for the video, saying at that time the materials were "part of an ongoing investigation" and "criminal investigation records." The newspaper again requested the video last week, after it was played in Douglas County District Court during a hearing for Blood.Judge Peggy Kittel is weighing whether to bind Blood over for trial. Her attorneys argue that while Blood made a mistake she was not reckless, as the charge alleges, and that the case against her should be dropped. Kittel is scheduled to announce her ruling later this week.Lewis' attorney, Shaye Downing, said in a statement Monday that during the officers' attempt to arrest Lewis for a "seatbelt violation" the officers "initiated physical contact and escalated a situation that could have been easily de-escalated by any number of interventions.""After this incident, there are serious concerns about the training officers receive and ongoing certification required to ensure that if an officer is faced with a situation where force is used, that they use only that level of force reasonably necessary for the given circumstances," Downing said.She also said Lewis has not received any help from the city of Lawrence for medical expenses for injuries he suffered during the confrontation.AdvertisementSupported byBy Mike IvesIt was the liquor talking, apparently.Two officials from an anti-immigrant political party in Australia said on Tuesday that an undercover recording of them explaining the political influence that money from the American gun lobby could potentially buy was not what it seemed.Their comments, they said, were just small talk made over rounds of scotch.In the recording, James Ashby, the chief of staff for Pauline Hanson, leader of the One Nation party, is heard to say that his right-wing party could “own” the Australian Senate and House of Representatives with a $20 million donation from the American gun lobby.The recording — by a reporter for Al Jazeera — was made in the United States during a trip last year, just weeks before an Australian law banning foreign political donations took effect.The recording was revealed on Monday in the first part of a two-part Al Jazeera documentary, “How to Sell a Massacre,” for which the Australian reporter Rodger Muller posed for years as a gun-rights advocate.Through the guise of a fake organization called Gun Rights Australia, Mr. Muller introduced Mr. Ashby and Steve Dickson, the One Nation party’s Queensland leader, to representatives from the National Rifle Association and Koch Industries during a trip to the United States in September.On Tuesday, Prime Minister Scott Morrison said on Twitter that reports of One Nation officials soliciting donations from the American gun lobby “to influence our elections & undermine our gun laws that keep us safe are deeply concerning.”Mr. Morrison, the leader of Australia’s Liberal Party, also accused One Nation of trying to “sell Australia’s gun laws to the highest bidders,” and said the revelations were another reason Australians should not vote for the One Nation party in general elections expected in May.Bill Shorten, the leader of the opposition Labor Party, accused One Nation of a “betrayal of the Australian political system.”“The idea of One Nation political party operatives going to the United States, seeking millions of dollars, promising to water down gun law protection in Australia — that was absolutely horrifying,” Mr. Shorten said.But Mr. Ashby told reporters on Tuesday that the meetings with the N.R.A. had been about sourcing technology and gaining “an understanding of how they operate.” He said they were never about requesting $20 million, and that he and Mr. Dickson had traveled to the United States on a fact-finding mission.“The conversations that have been recorded where there is talk of $10 and $20 million dollars — I’ll be the first to admit, we’d arrived in America, we’d got on the sauce, we’d had a few drinks,” Mr. Ashby said.“And that’s where those discussions took place,” he continued. “Not with any potential donors. No one but Rodger Muller, Steve Dickson and myself.”Many Americans can buy a gun in less than an hour. In New Zealand, the process can take weeks or months.Mr. Dickson said that Mr. Muller, the journalist, had “seemed to be a very reasonable guy” — an impression he said was bolstered by Mr. Muller’s Akubra bush hat, akin to an American cowboy hat. He said the conversation was merely a product of “having scotches for three or four hours.”“I never, ever, suspected in my wildest dreams that that guy was employed by a Middle Eastern country, by Al Jazeera, as an Australian spy to interfere in Australian politics,” Mr. Dickson said.Al Jazeera, a satellite network based in Qatar and owned by that country’s government, said in a report on Tuesday that the documentary “provides a rare inside view of how the N.R.A. deliberates over mass shootings and seeks to manipulate media coverage to push its pro-gun agenda.”In an email, Jennifer Baker, the director of public affairs for the N.R.A., called Al Jazeera a “state-owned anti-gun” network and said, “At no time did the N.R.A. contribute funding to any Australian political party or Gun Rights Australia.”The Australian government introduced some of the world’s toughest gun laws in 1996, after a gunman with a semiautomatic rifle killed 35 people in the town of Port Arthur.The rate of intentional gun deaths in Australia had fallen about 33 percent from 1986 to 1996, the year of the Port Arthur massacre. But the decline accelerated after the new gun control measures were enacted, with the rate dropping about 60 percent from 1996 to 2006. President Barack Obama later cited the laws as a potential model for the United States.One Nation’s website says that the focus of its firearms policy is to “move away from trying to criminalize firearms ownership to punishing criminals for the use of firearms to commit crimes.” Among other measures, the party’s platform calls for reducing waiting periods for handgun purchases.In response to the new documentary, One Nation said in a statement that its members always complied with the law. It also called Al Jazeera “a state owned propaganda arm of the Qatari government that supports Islamic extremist groups and are not a legitimate media organization.”In 2017, Ms. Hanson, the party’s leader, sparked controversy by walking into the Australian Senate wearing a burqa as a way of drawing attention to her party’s push to ban full-face coverings in public. The move drew strong criticism from other senators.AdvertisementSupported byBy The Associated PressNORFOLK, Va. — Police in Virginia say they've charged a man in the fatal shooting of a William & Mary football player last week.Norfolk police said in a statement Tuesday that they arrested 20-year-old Kri'Shawn Beamon at his Chesapeake home Monday and charged him with second-degree murder, robbery and firearms offenses.Officers called to an area near Old Dominion University on Thursday for a shooting found 19-year-old Nathan Evans on the sidewalk suffering from a gunshot wound. Police say he was pronounced dead at the scene.AdvertisementSupported byBy Ali Winston[What you need to know to start the day: Get New York Today in your inbox.]A man has been taken into police custody in connection with a brutal attack on a 78-year-old woman on the subway in the Bronx this month, the police said on Saturday.The man, Marc Gomez, 36, of Yonkers, was arrested around 10:30 a.m. on Saturday in Lower Manhattan, the police said. Mr. Gomez was identified this week by an anonymous tip that said he often hung around areas of Lower Manhattan. Mr. Gomez was charged with felony assault.The attack, which took place around 3 a.m. on March 10, surfaced this week when a video of the assault was posted to the internet. The recording of the attack had received more than 10 million views as of Saturday afternoon.The video showed a tall man wearing jeans, glasses, a leather jacket and a knit cap forcefully kicking the woman at least six times as she sat on a northbound No. 2 train that was pulling into the Nereid Avenue station. Bystanders recorded the encounter and shouted but did not intervene.As the man made his way off the train, he turned to the passengers recording and said, “WorldStar that” — a reference to a popular website that often showcases clips of violent altercations.The woman was met by an ambulance at the next train station, and treated for swelling and cuts to the face, the police said.On Sunday, Alisa Cox, Mr. Gomez’s fiancйe, said the woman repeatedly threatened her family, including her 11-year-old daughter, as they were traveling back to Yonkers after attending a birthday party.“It looks like he just went over there and starting kicking her for no apparent reason,” Ms. Cox, 44, said in an interview, adding, “I’ve known him since he was 16. He’s not a bad person.”Ms. Cox said Mr. Gomez, who had been working in a TriBeCa restaurant, immediately expressed remorse after he got off the train, admitting he let his temper get the best of him.Mr. Gomez has another open case in connection with an arrest from November. Officers arrested Mr. Gomez and a teenager after they found a loaded shotgun in a car the two were riding in on the Cross Bronx Expressway, the police said.Mr. Gomez was charged at the time with criminal possession of a loaded firearm, criminal possession of a firearm and criminal possession of a weapon after the police said they found a Mossberg shotgun in the car, a 2018 Mercedes with taxi license plates.While crime in the subway — and the city — is at lows not seen since the 1950s, violent encounters in the transit system posted to social media receive outsize attention. One such attack was the murder of 20-year-old Abel Mosso by alleged rival gang members on a Queens subway platform last month.As of March 17, there were 465 reported crimes in the transit system, down from 476 during the same period in 2018.Tyler Pager and Ashley Southall contributed reporting.AdvertisementSupported byBy ReutersCHRISTCHURCH — The pre-dawn quiet of New Zealand's South Island is shattered by the crack of a bullet from Noel Womersley's Finnish Tikka T3 rifle, followed by the shot thudding into the skull of a cow he is targeting, one of three.For 14 years Womersley has worked at "home kill," shooting beasts for small farmers and cutting them up, but tough new gun laws to be adopted after the nation's worst mass murder by a lone gunman will require him to surrender another of his guns."Guns are a way of life for me, really," says Womersley, 48, who received his first firearm, a .22-calibre rifle, for his 12th birthday, and now hunts with his 15-year-old daughter."It's pretty much what I live and breathe. I (shoot) on the weekends for fun and then I do it during the week for a job."As the first beast slumps, he rapidly draws back and pushes forward his riflebolt, firing again and then a third time. In seconds, three cattle are dead on the damp ground. He gathers his knives and begins to cut them up."I shoot animals, I don't shoot targets. I shoot food," says Womersley.Wearing black overalls and gumboots for protection against the gore, he pushes the cattle on their sides, removes heads and hide and uses a hoist to load the carcasses on his refrigerated truck.Womersley was on a similar job in the hinterland beyond Christchurch on March 15, when a man in combat gear entered the city's Al Noor mosque, and then another, and turned his high-powered military-style weapons on unarmed worshippers."I didn't really comprehend it was real. I thought it was like a movie, or something that's happened overseas," Womersley says, adding that he had been shocked to discover after work what had unfolded just a few kilometers away.Fifty people were killed and scores wounded, prompting an outpouring of support for the nation's bereaved Muslim community, and a swift crackdown on guns. The semi-automatics used in the attack will be banned, with exemptions for working hunters, and tougher licensing rules are on the drawing board.A wide swathe of New Zealand's quarter-million gun owners, who account for about 1.5 million weapons, say they accept there must be change after the tragedy."I think the gun laws were too slack...the laws gave this bad man a gun," says Womersley, who owns eight or nine guns, stored in a safe in the garage of a home decorated with game heads. "He ruined it for everyone. Not everyone is like that."As part of a new national firearm buyback scheme, he expects to hand in one military-style AR-15 assault rifle, a type of weapon used in the Christchurch massacre.AdvertisementSupported byBy Liam StackA New York man who discussed an American re-enactment of the New Zealand mosque massacre with white supremacist friends on Facebook was charged Thursday with lying to F.B.I. agents, law enforcement officials said.According to the criminal complaint, Thomas Alonzo Bolin, 22, was charged on Wednesday with lying to federal agents in an interview last week about whether he owned firearms, the Office of the United States Attorney for the Western District of New York said. He was already in custody on state charges filed Saturday.The office said the F.B.I. had been investigating Mr. Bolin, who lives in the Rochester suburb of Greece, N.Y., for possible violations of federal civil rights and firearms laws.It was not clear on Thursday whether Mr. Bolin had made any specific plans for violence. But in Facebook messages he had praised the March 15 mass killing of 50 people at two mosques in Christchurch, New Zealand, according to the criminal complaint. He also discussed his desire to commit acts of violence in the messages, which were intercepted by law enforcement officials.The F.B.I. said Mr. Bolin used the alias Peter Vincent to share video of the Christchurch attack, which was livestreamed by the shooter on Facebook and spread to Twitter, Reddit and YouTube. Mr. Bolin also used that alias to be active in white supremacist Facebook groups and discuss potential violence with his cousin, Austin Witkowski, the agency said.A law enforcement official said Mr. Witkowski, who used the Facebook alias Ragnar Odinson, had not been arrested. The official said his whereabouts was unknown.The F.B.I. used Facebook messages to map out weeks of racist conversations between the two men, who appeared to share a specific hostile fixation on Muslims, according to the complaint.On the day of the Christchurch attack, the two men also talked to each other about the manifesto published by the gunman and shared their hope that a similar massacre would happen in the United States.The F.B.I. said Mr. Bolin talked to his cousin about the New Zealand gunman, telling him, “Brugh dude killed 40 muslims.” Mr. Witkowski responded with a heart emoji and the word, “Lovely.”Both men talked to other Facebook users about the Christchurch attack, the F.B.I. said, and their desire to emulate it in the United States, although those other users are not identified in the criminal complaint.Talking about the shooting with one of those unidentified Facebook users, Mr. Brolin said “there is a war brewing” and “realistically this was a small piece of a bigger picture now we wait for the retaliation.”The criminal complaint alleges that Mr. Witkowski made more specific threats. Speaking to an unidentified Facebook user, Mr. Witkowski said he wanted to see the Christchurch attacks copied in the United States and then said he was willing to “do something as of next week” in Baltimore.The complaint said Mr. Witkowski told the other Facebook user to buy firearms, ammunition and food, and said that he would travel to meet him the next week. The complaint does not say if the meeting ever happened.The day after the shooting, Mr. Bolin and Mr. Witkowski expressed frustration to each other that they had not been able to carry out an attack. According to the complaint, Mr. Bolin said he had broken his arm in a car accident.Using an expletive, Mr. Witkowski responded that the broken arm would complicate an unspecified plan they had made. Mr. Bolin then reassured him, saying it only “takes one arm to fire a Glock.”Mr. Witkowski wrote back saying he would carry out their plan himself. “I’m not waiting months and months or a week,” he said. “It was supposed to be done by Halloween.”Later that day, Mr. Witkowski wrote to his cousin: “Words aren’t going to help. Violence is the key.” The F.B.I. said Mr. Bolin then cautioned his cousin not to say anything more on Facebook.“Yoooo chill,” he wrote. “Not on the fed book.” Mr. Witkowski replied that he did not care.Using the Peter Vincent alias, Mr. Bolin managed a Facebook group called Odin’s Warriors, which did not appear to be active on Thursday. The F.B.I. said Mr. Bolin and his cousin were members of a neo-pagan religious group called “Folk Odinism” that worships the gods of Norse mythology and limits its membership to white heterosexuals.The criminal complaint said investigators linked Mr. Bolin to the Peter Vincent account by combing through Facebook messages, where Mr. Vincent once told someone that his “real name is Thomas Bolin, Peter Vincent is a character from a horror movie.” (That was most likely the 1985 vampire movie “Fright Night,” or the 2011 remake.)Facebook provided the F.B.I. with Mr. Bolin’s messages on March 21 as part of a “voluntary emergency disclosure of subscriber and content information,” the agency said. A representative for the company said it shares user information with law enforcement without going through a formal legal process only when it believes there to be an imminent risk of serious injury or death.“White supremacy, hate groups, and hate speech are not allowed on Facebook, and we also recently announced a ban on praise or support of white nationalism,” the company said in a statement. “We remove any content that violates our policies and work with law enforcement when we think there is a genuine risk of real-world harm.”AdvertisementSupported byBy The Associated PressVICKSBURG, Miss. — A Georgia man was shot Sunday by a man and woman who went on to rob fast-food restaurants, take two hostages during a carjacking and fire at deputies during a high-speed chase prior to their capture Monday, authorities said.The string of crimes stretched across three states, beginning in Columbus, Georgia early Sunday and ending in Vicksburg, Mississippi, late Monday, Warren County, Mississippi, Sheriff Martin Pace told reporters Tuesday.Sharae Dominique Threadgill, 21, of Ellerslie, Georgia, and Jalen Benton, 18, of Stone Mountain, Georgia, were captured after carjacking a mother and daughter and shooting at deputies chasing the carjacked SUV, officials said.Pace said that one of the two hostages, forced to drive, slammed on the brakes, with both hostages jumping out.Pace said Threadgill then took over the wheel, with Benton firing more shots. Pace said deputies shot out one of the SUV's tires and the vehicle ran out of gas, finally ending the chase."These are some dangerous people," Pace said. "I firmly believe the hostage driver made a lifesaving/life preserving decision when she choose to end the period where she was driving,"A judge on Tuesday denied bail to the pair, who are jailed in Vicksburg. It's unclear if either has a lawyer. Warren County charged Benton with two counts of simple assault on a police officer, armed carjacking, two counts of kidnapping and two counts of possession of a stolen firearm. Threadgill is charged with armed carjacking, two counts of kidnapping, felony fleeing and eluding a law enforcement officer and two counts of possession of a stolen firearm. The two are likely to face numerous charges elsewhere.Officials in Columbus, Georgia, say they believe Threadgill and Benton tried to rob 30-year-old Phillip Whitaker, who was found dead in a truck at an apartment around 2 a.m. Sunday. Columbus police believe he was shot in a failed armed robbery attempt at a separate apartment complex.AdvertisementSupported byBy Alan FeuerEven though jurors in the trial of the Mexican drug lord Joaquнn Guzmбn Loera have spent nearly three months in the courtroom, they seem to be in no rush to go home. In a day and a half of deliberations, they have already written four notes with substantive questions and requests for evidence, including one that asked for more than a week’s worth of testimony from three witnesses.It is difficult to glean much information from a jury’s notes, but those that have been sent so far by the jurors in this case suggest that the panel is making a genuine effort to sort through more than 10 weeks of testimony and exhibits.That is a daunting task, not only because of the volume of the evidence, but also because jurors must work through an eight-page verdict sheet with 53 boxes that must be checked “Guilty or Not Guilty,” “Proven or Not Proven,” or simply “Yes or No.”The verdict sheet is based on the indictment charging Mr. Guzmбn, who is best known as El Chapo, with 10 separate counts, the most important of which accuses him of being a leader of a “continuing criminal enterprise” from 1990 to 2014.The enterprise count is composed of 27 violations, most of which allege that Mr. Guzmбn arranged specific drug deals, from 400 kilograms of marijuana to nearly 20 tons of cocaine. There is also a murder conspiracy violation that claims he either personally killed or ordered the deaths of dozens of people.The other counts accuse Mr. Guzmбn of making, importing and distributing drugs; using firearms to further his operation; and conspiring to launder the profits of his empire.Complicating matters, four of the violations listed under the enterprise charge are also included as separate counts on the verdict sheet. Another twist: the jury cannot consider the firearms and money laundering counts, unless it first finds that Mr. Guzmбn is guilty of at least one of the drug counts.On Monday morning, it took Judge Brian M. Cogan, who is handling the case, almost three hours to instruct the jurors on how to proceed. By the end of the day, they had sent the judge two substantial notes, which illustrated the complexity of the their task. One asked if “a drug war” could be thought of as a drug trafficking crime that would trigger their consideration of the firearms charge. The other note asked if ephedrine — an ingredient in methamphetamines — was the same as the drug itself.On the second day of deliberations, in Federal District Court in Brooklyn, the jury made two additional requests concerning Mr. Guzmбn’s role in trafficking methamphetamines. They asked to rehear an intercepted phone call of the kingpin clearly discussing selling the drug. They also asked to be read testimony from a witness who said he once met with the man in charge of methamphetamine production for Mr. Guzmбn’s organization, the Sinaloa drug cartel.It was harder to discern the meaning of another request the jury made: They asked Judge Cogan to provide them with the entire eight-day testimony of Jorge and Alex Cifuentes-Villa, two Colombian brothers who worked closely with Mr. Guzmбn.To avoid reading the testimony aloud in court — which could easily take days — Judge Cogan suggested giving the jury a transcript. But that required redacting sidebars and the answers to questions the judge ruled should be struck from the record. The jury did not receive a copy of the transcript by the time court ended Tuesday afternoon.AdvertisementSupported byBy The Associated PressBRUCETON MILLS, W.Va. — A West Virginia motorist going nearly twice the speed limit was detained Wednesday after he threatened to kill President Donald Trump and blow up the Pentagon, state police said.The man was taken into custody following a traffic stop along Interstate 68 in northern West Virginia, state police said in a news release.The statement said a trooper saw a vehicle registered from Missouri clocked at 130 mph (209 kph). The trooper stopped the vehicle near Bruceton Mills and indicated the driver appeared to be confused and distressed and made concerning comments.Police dogs indicated the presence of explosive materials inside the vehicle, but the statement said a search turned up no such devices and the incident remains under investigation.The interstate was reopened after nearly four hours. The 42-year-old suspect's name wasn't immediately released.The Secret Service, the U.S. Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives, the FBI and Maryland state police assisted.AdvertisementSupported byBy Christina CaronBy the end of February, the students at Manatee School for the Arts in Palmetto, Fla., will see two  combat veterans in body armor roaming the grounds, each carrying a 9-millimeter Glock handgun and a semiautomatic rifle with a 17-inch barrel.If an armed intruder were to enter the campus, “we’re not looking for a fair fight,” Bill Jones, the principal, said in an interview. “We’re looking at an overwhelming advantage.”Legislation passed after the Parkland massacre last year requires schools in Florida to have at least one “safe-school officer.” Manatee School for the Arts, a charter for 2,100 middle and high school students, is the only school in Manatee County that chose to hire guards who carry rifles, according to the Manatee County Sheriff’s Department, which trained the guards.[School safety. Gun control. Red flag laws. Read more on how America has responded to the Parkland massacre over the past year.]“It’s just a much more effective weapon than the handgun is,” Dr. Jones said.The decision to patrol with long guns is “very unusual,” said Michael Dorn, the executive director of Safe Havens International, which has performed security assessments at dozens of public school systems throughout Florida, including three of the state’s largest school districts.Mr. Dorn said he was not aware of any school guards in the United States who openly carry long guns, though it is not unusual in some areas overseas.“It’s not something that we typically advise our clients to do for a variety of reasons,” he added, in part because someone might knock out the officer and take the weapon, and it’s more difficult to subdue and handcuff an assailant while carrying a long gun.Manatee School for the Arts is also adding a guard shack to its entrance and will raise its perimeter fencing by two feet.Florida’s bill, named the Marjory Stoneman Douglas High School Public Safety Act after the school where the Parkland shooting occurred a year ago this week, gave schools the option of choosing between a school resource officer, who is employed by a law enforcement agency; a school safety officer, who is employed by either a law enforcement agency or by the district school board; or a school guardian, a school employee trained to stop lethal attacks.Last year, an Associated Press survey found that nine of the state’s 67 countywide school districts were supplementing officers by employing full-time guardians. The survey did not specify the type of weapons the guards would be using.“We have guardians in almost all of our elementary schools, and in most of our charter schools,” said Michael Barber, a spokesman for the School District of Manatee County.On the heels of the Florida massacre, at least half of the states enacted at least one gun control measure in 2018.The district’s public middle and high schools have school resource officers, he added.Manatee School for the Arts hired one guardian with 15 years of infantry experience who has now been on campus for a couple of months, Dr. Jones said. A second guardian, also a combat veteran, is finishing his training and will begin working this month, he added.Guardians are required to complete at least 132 hours of firearm safety and proficiency training.Dr. Jones said the school hired combat veterans because he wanted guards who wouldn’t hesitate to go after a gunman.“I don’t want this to be the first time they’ve had someone shooting at them,” he said.So far, Dr. Jones said, “most parents have been very accepting.”To assuage safety concerns about the high-powered weapons, the school requires its guardians to keep the chambers of their Kel-Tec RDB semiautomatic rifles empty, and the guns are not stored on campus.The presence of an armed guard doesn’t necessarily deter violence. During the shooting last February that left 17 in Parkland dead, there was an armed school resource officer standing by the door to the building who was later widely criticized for not entering. (He said he thought at the time that the gunman was outside.)[Read how the Parkland massacre has changed the lives of the survivors in their own words.]And in 2016, a teacher in Michigan was grazed in the neck by a bullet when a school resource officer negligently fired his gun. And in some cases, agitated students have grabbed officers’ guns, even while the guns were in holsters.Dr. Jones estimated that the total cost of the new security measures would be close to $200,000 for the 2018-19 school year, and said the armed guards would earn a yearly salary of about $50,000. It “substantially exceeds” the money received from the state, he added.Despite the heightened fear over school shootings, active shooters are statistically rare.Unintentional injury, which includes traffic accidents and drowning, is the leading cause of death for American school-age children.[Nearly 1,200 children have been killed by gun violence since the shooting in Parkland. Read how teenage journalists told their stories.]“Our mind-set is so locked into the rare but truly catastrophic active-shooter event,” Mr. Dorn said.On school property, students and school employees are more likely to die by suicide than a mass shooting, he added.Spending a lot of money to arm security officers addresses only one type of school safety concern, said Amanda Klinger, the director of operations at the Educator’s School Safety Network, an organization that trains educators and administrators in violence-prevention measures.“We don’t know that those security interventions will stop the things that they’re seeking to stop,” Ms. Klinger said. “My question is, what else are they doing to keep kids safe in schools? What are they doing to keep kids safe from risks or threats other than active shooters?”AdvertisementSupported byA look at an analysis of data from the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, and what it means. By Adeel HassanThe number of deaths from alcohol, drugs and suicide in 2017 hit the highest level since the collection of this type of federal mortality data started in 1999, according to an analysis by two public health nonprofits, the Trust for America’s Health and the Well Being Trust. To reach their conclusion, the two groups parsed the latest available data from the federal Centers for Disease Control and Prevention.More than 150,000 Americans died from alcohol and drug-induced fatalities and suicide in 2017. Nearly a third — 47,173 — were suicides.“There are two crises unfolding in America right now,” said Dr. Benjamin Miller, the chief policy officer for Well Being Trust and the founding director of the Eugene S. Farley Jr. Health Policy Center in Aurora, Colo. “One is in health care, and one is in society.”Dr. Miller attributed the increasing disparities in health care and inequalities in income as crucial factors in the feelings of despair, loneliness and a lack of belonging that contributed to suicides among many Americans.Twenty years ago, less than 1,000 deaths a year were attributed to fentanyl and synthetic opioids. In 2017, more than 1,000 Americans died from synthetic opioid overdoses every two weeks, topping 28,000 for the year. Most of the increase was concentrated in the preceding five years, when such deaths rose tenfold and the opioid epidemic became the leading cause of death for Americans under 55.West Virginia and New Mexico had the highest number of deaths, the analysis showed, with Mississippi and Texas the lowest. By region, the Northeast had the highest opioid death rates followed by the Midwest. The South’s rate was nearly half that of the Northeast.“The numbers are driven in no small way by pharmaceutical companies creating addicting drugs and clinicians inappropriately oversubscribing opioids,” said John Auerbach, president and chief executive of Trust for America’s Health.Though doctors and drug companies have been taking steps to control opioid addictions, Mr. Auerbach said, patients who are addicted to prescription opioids often shift to synthetic ones, like fentanyl, which is 50 times more potent than heroin. Fentanyl has also snaked its way into other drugs like cocaine, Xanax and MDMA, widening the epidemic.Guns, which remain plentiful and accessible, were used in nearly half of the nation’s 47,173 suicides in 2017, the analysis showed. Though most common with Caucasians, suicide by gun increased proportionally more among racial and ethnic minority groups, the study showed, especially among African-Americans and Latinos. The rate among children and adolescents increased 16 percent.Suicides can be the result of trauma that goes unrecognized or unaddressed — the loss of a job, home or death of a loved one, Mr. Auerbach said. “Without the social cohesiveness and social support built within family,” he said, “people are experiencing trauma without what gave them resilience historically.”While state legislatures passed 69 gun control measures in 2018, the measures are not reflected in this data, which were collected before 2018. There were 13,075 such deaths in 2017. Dr. Miller and Mr. Auerbach attributed this increase to copycat suicides. “People get the idea from high-profile celebrities who die by hanging,” Dr. Miller said. In addition, the materials used in a hanging suicide are much more available than firearms. On Tuesday, the Food and Drug Administration approved a prescription treatment intended to help the 16 million adult Americans living with depression. Experts in treating depression said they were encouraged by the news, but remained cautious about the development. Massachusetts, Oklahoma, Rhode Island, Utah and Wyoming saw decreases. In some instances, the numbers in these state were high to begin with, according to Mr. Auerbach, a former Massachusetts health commissioner.He said that in response to the crisis, Massachusetts had begun to limit prescriptions of opioids; increase patient beds; focus on quality of care for patients who had suffered trauma; create suicide prevention programs for veterans; and reduce the stigma of suicide through public information campaigns. “The old way was, ‘Don’t talk about it,’” he said. “The new way is, ‘Let’s talk about it.’”AdvertisementSupported byBy Mihir ZaveriThe parents of a woman who was fatally shot in San Francisco by an undocumented immigrant in 2015 cannot sue the city for freeing the man without telling federal immigration authorities just months before the shooting, a federal appeals court ruled this week.  President Trump has highlighted the case in his attacks on illegal immigration and sanctuary cities.Kathryn Steinle, 32, was shot by Jose Ines Garcia Zarate in July 2015 as she was walking on a San Francisco pier. Mr. Garcia Zarate, an undocumented immigrant who had been deported several times, had been freed by the San Francisco Sheriff’s Department less than three months earlier after charges against him were dropped in a separate drug case.In a trial that lasted more than five weeks, Mr. Garcia Zarate was acquitted by a jury in November 2017 on murder and manslaughter charges but convicted of being a felon in possession of a firearm. He said he had fired the gun by accident, and evidence presented at the trial indicated the bullet had ricocheted.Mr. Garcia Zarate was sentenced in January 2018 to the three years he had already served in prison pending trial. He faces two federal firearms charges in a separate case stemming from the July 2015 shooting. He has pleaded not guilty.The case gained national attention as Mr. Trump seized on it as an example of what he called the problems with illegal immigration and sanctuary cities, which seek to limit cooperation with federal immigration authorities. Immigrations and Customs Enforcement had asked the sheriff’s department to hold Mr. Zarate, but he was released in April 2015 “without notification to ICE,” according to Tuesday’s appellate court decision.Ms. Steinle’s parents filed a wrongful-death suit against the city and sheriff in 2016.Tuesday’s decision by a three-judge panel of the United States Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit affirmed a lower court’s ruling that said that the authorities in San Francisco cannot be held liable for Ms. Steinle’s death.“Kathryn Steinle’s death was a senseless tragedy,” the San Francisco City Attorney’s Office said in a statement Tuesday. “As a city, we are heartbroken for her family and continue to grieve for their loss. The issue before the court was whether the city and its taxpayers can be held liable under these circumstances for the actions of a former inmate. The appellate court affirmed that the city is not liable and that federal law did not compel the sheriff to act differently than he did.”The statement said the ruling “allows the city to decide what policies are best to protect all of its residents and make communities safer.”A lawyer for Mr. Garcia Zarate declined to comment on Tuesday night.Lawyers for the parents of Ms. Steinle did not immediately return calls for comment, and a phone call to a number listed for her father was not immediately returned.It’s not clear whether they plan to appeal Tuesday’s ruling.They still have pending claims against the United States over the gun used in the fatal shooting, which was stolen from a federal Bureau of Land Management ranger’s vehicle, according to the appellate court decision.Ms. Steinle’s death fed into a fierce debate over how law enforcement should approach immigrants without legal status; Mr. Garcia Zarate had been deported to Mexico at least five times from 1993 to 2011, according to court documents.AdvertisementSupported byBy ReutersSYDNEY — The morning commute for Australians in the country's second largest city was thrown into chaos on Thursday after armed police stormed a train station in response to an erroneous sighting of a gun.Trains at Melbourne's Flagstaff Station were suspended shortly around 8am local time (2200 GMT), while commuters were urged to stay clear of the local area."We had a concern that it might be someone with a firearm on a train," Graham Ashton, Victoria Police commissioner told 3AW radio station."There was no fire arm on the train."Trains resumed around an hour after the first report, Public Transport Victoria said, though major delays have now been reported.A staunch U.S. ally, Australia has been on heightened alert from 2015 for attacks by home-grown militants returning from fighting in the Middle East, and its intelligence agencies have stepped up scrutiny.AdvertisementSupported byletterThe National Organization for Women criticizes the gun lobby and the members of Congress in its sway. To the Editor:Re “N.R.A.’s Next Target: Violence Against Women Act” (news article, April 2):The National Rifle Association uses its legislative scorecard as a means of intimidating lawmakers into voting its way. The bills it chooses to include in its ratings reflect its top policy goals. Now you report that reauthorizing the Violence Against Women Act will be on that list. The message is clear: Vote to protect women’s lives at your political peril.The N.R.A. wants to leave open the “boyfriend loophole,” which allows intimate partners who are convicted of domestic violence, stalking or abuse to keep their firearms. Current protections apply only to men who are married to or who live with the women they abuse and with whom they have a child; boyfriends and exes get a pass.More than 1,800 women were murdered by men in 2016, and the most common weapon used was a gun, according to a study by the Violence Policy Center. The study found that most often, women were killed by men in the course of an argument.AdvertisementSupported byBy ReutersWASHINGTON — The U.S. Supreme Court on Thursday handed President Donald Trump a victory by rejecting for the second time in three days a bid by gun rights activists to block his new ban on "bump stock" attachments that enable semi-automatic weapons to fire rapidly.The policy, embraced by Trump in the wake of an October 2017 massacre in Las Vegas in which bump stocks were used, went into effect on Tuesday. The ban is a rare recent instance of gun control at the federal level in a country that has experienced a succession of mass shootings.The court in a brief order refused to grant a temporary stay sought by the group Gun Owners of America and others in a lawsuit filed in Michigan challenging the ban while litigation continues. Chief Justice John Roberts on Tuesday rejected a similar bid to block the policy in a separate legal challenge brought in Washington by individual gun owners and gun rights groups including the Firearms Policy Foundation and Florida Carry Inc. Michael Hammond, Gun Owners of America's legislative counsel, said many owners of the estimated 500,000 bump stocks in the United States would refuse to turn them in despite the ban and related criminal penalties. People caught in possession of bump stocks could face up to 10 years in prison under the policy."GOA will continue to fight the issue in the court system, as the case now returns to the lower courts. We remain convinced that the courts will consign this unlawful, unconstitutional ban to the trash bin of history, where it belongs," Hammond said in a statement, using the group's acronym.A Justice Department spokeswoman said the administration was pleased with the high court's action.Bump stocks use a gun's recoil to bump its trigger, enabling a semiautomatic weapon to fire hundreds of rounds per minute, which can transform it into a machine gun. The Justice Department's regulation followed the lead of many states and retailers that imposed stricter limits on sales of guns and accessories after a deadly shooting at a Florida high school in February 2018.LAS VEGAS SHOOTINGTrump pledged to ban bump stocks soon after a gunman used them in a spree that killed 58 people at a country music festival in Las Vegas. The Justice Department on Dec. 18 announced plans to implement the policy on March 26.The FBI said in January it had found no clear motive for the 64-year-old Las Vegas gunman, Stephen Paddock, in the deadliest mass shooting in modern U.S. history.In the Michigan case, a federal judge already has ruled in favor of the administration. The Cincinnati, Ohio-based 6th U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals refused to put the ban on hold pending appeal. Other plaintiffs in that case include the Gun Owners Foundation, the Virginia Citizens Defense League and three individual gun owners.In the Washington case, a federal judge also upheld the ban, prompting the gun rights advocates to appeal to the U.S. Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit. That court has heard oral arguments but has not yet ruled.Those challenging the policy have argued that the U.S. Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives (ATF) lacks the authority to equate bump stocks with machine guns. One of the laws at the center of the legal dispute was written more than 80 years ago, when Congress restricted access to machine guns during the heyday of American gangsters' use of "tommy guns."AdvertisementSupported byCases like one on the Supreme Court docket this term often lead to more injuries and deaths.By Jonathan M. MetzlDr. Metzl is a professor and the research director at the Safe Tennessee Project.A case before the Supreme Court this term could significantly affect whether densely populated cities like New York have the right to set their own gun policies.At a glance, New York State Rifle and Pistol Association v. City of New York is a limited dispute. It pits residents who have “premises licenses,” which allow them to possess guns only at their homes, against a New York City ordinance that restricts their travel with their weapons to shooting ranges and clubs within city borders. If the petitioners — a gun advocacy group along with three of these individuals — prevail, those with premises licenses will be allowed to take their handguns with them to out-of-town ranges. Not a big deal, right? Actually, it is. The case has implications far broader than sport shooting. If the court decides against the city, New York City and other cities around the country could become far more dangerous places.As a university professor and the research director of a Southern gun violence prevention organization, I’ve spent the past eight years tracking how state and local-level court rulings and legislation promoted as limited in scope lead to sweeping changes in the ways people buy, carry and use firearms. Time and again, I’ve found that seemingly modest relaxation of local gun laws like the one at issue in New York undercut the ability of cities and communities to set their own regulations, and alter ways that people live and die.For instance, in 2007, pro-gun politicians in Missouri repealed a seemingly arcane 1921 law governing the purchase of concealable firearms. Supporters of the repeal (backed by the National Rifle Association) pitched the change as simply easing a tedious and outdated requirement that prospective gun buyers fill out paperwork in person at sheriff’s offices. But this modest action was the first rumbling of an avalanche. Missouri gun proponents built on the repeal to legalize “permitless carry” by anyone 19 years of age or older, nullify local gun-control ordinances, expand “stand your ground” protections and empower citizens to carry weapons into restaurants, bars, streets, schools and seemingly everyplace else. The police even lost the ability to disarm anyone carrying a firearm unless the individual was under arrest. The inability of local government to make gun laws threatened to turn Missouri into the “Wild West,” in the words of an exasperated City Council member in Webster Groves.In Tennessee, N.R.A.-supported politicians pushed through legislation allowing guns in parks. Only after passage did people discover that the law weakened the state’s ability to restrict weapons at concerts and state fairs. A 2017 law in Arkansas permitted guns on college campuses — which made guns legal at Southeast Conference football games and other large sporting events. So-called guns-in-trunks laws in Ohio and some other states allowed employees to store guns and ammunition in their vehicles while at work — followed by jumps in the number of guns stolen out of cars. Sweeping open-carry legislation in Texas meant public libraries could not keep guns out of the stacks.While these changes expand gun rights for certain people, they invariably lead to significant increases in  injuries and deaths. Right-to-carry laws correlate with increases in violent crime and rising homicide and suicide rates, and also raise the likelihood that incidents of conflict like road rage or domestic arguments will turn fatal. For instance, homicides committed with guns in Missouri increased by 25 percent in the three years after the 2007 repeal, and more Missouri guns were recovered in crimes in neighboring states. Gun suicides rose over this period as well. Data from the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention shows that states with the weakest gun laws and highest rates of gun ownership invariably have the highest rates of overall gun mortality. A recent study found that they also have higher rates of mass shootings.Beyond the direct health effects, allowing guns in public spaces changes how we interact with one another. My research shows that people become more wary when they think a stranger might be armed — a mistrust that fuels further gun sales. Racial tensions and stereotypes often accompany this anxiety. “I see white guys walking around Sam’s Club with guns on their hips,” an African-American man in Missouri told me, which he saw as armed racial intimidation.In an ideal world, New York City might serve as a model for effective gun policy. Gun-related injuries and deaths have been falling for the past decade — not coincidentally, over the same period that the city got serious about gun laws. New York has remarkably low rates of gun trauma for a United States city of its size. Municipal and state laws and regulations also effectively limit gun trafficking. Much of this success results from policies that would most likely be in jeopardy should the Rifle and Pistol Association case go against New York — for instance, restrictions on where people can carry guns and prohibitions on tourists’ bringing weapons into the city. Perhaps most important, regulations governing how people carry guns in New York City differ from those applied in parts of the state that have long and respected traditions of firearm ownership, such as in upstate New York.At stake in cases like Rifle and Pistol is the possible nationalization of disastrous policies from pro-gun states — not just loosened gun laws but also pre-emptions of how state or local governments can decide what works best. If the Supreme Court rules in favor of the plaintiffs in any one of these types of cases, the decision could signal that more significant gun control laws might not withstand legal challenges. Additionally, the justices could expand Second Amendment protections beyond the home, an issue left open in previous Supreme Court decisions, and could open the door to overturning longstanding laws governing concealed-carry, gun permitting and other restrictions enacted at the local and state levels.The current composition of the court suggests we should brace for decisions that upend local and state regulations in favor of nationally mandated policies that make it ever easier for people to purchase and carry guns. The nomination of President Trump’s first court appointee, Neil Gorsuch, was buoyed by a $1 million ad campaign by the National Rifle Association. And his second appointee, Brett Kavanaugh, wrote a 2011 circuit court dissent in which he argued that Washington, D.C., could not ban semiautomatic rifles on its streets because the right to bear arms superseded its interest in public safety.Missouri, Tennessee and Washington are not New York City. People are generally not allowed to carry guns around New York City, to safeguard the delicate and at times tense choreography that gives the city its charm. New Yorkers cram into crowded subway cars, brush by one another on busy sidewalks and drive haltingly through traffic-filled streets. This bustle of the everyday builds on often unspoken communal understandings of neighborliness and trust.But imagine a New York where more and more of your neighbors carry guns. If the Supreme Court sides with the complainants in Rifle and Pistol, you won’t need to imagine.Jonathan M. Metzl is a professor at Vanderbilt University and the author of “Dying of Whiteness: How the Politics of Racial Resentment is Killing America’s Heartland.”AdvertisementSupported byBy Sarah MervoshIt took New Zealand just six days to announce an immediate plan to change to the nation’s gun policy after a gunman killed 50 people at two mosques in Christchurch last week.On Thursday, a day after the first victims were laid to rest, Prime Minister Jacinda Ardern announced a national ban on all military-style semiautomatic weapons, all high-capacity ammunition magazines and all parts that allow weapons to be modified into the kinds of guns used in last week’s attack.Ms. Ardern is expected to encounter little resistance in Parliament. The new law could be in place as soon as April 11.It is unclear how the weapons ban will be felt in New Zealand, where there are plenty of guns but relatively few murders. Since 2007, gun homicides have been in the single digits every year except in 2009, when there were 11.But the swift action already stands in stark contrast to the federal response to mass shootings in the United States, which has the highest rate of gun ownership in the world and is one of only a few countries that start with the assumption that gun ownership is a right, not a privilege.After a gunman killed 58 people in Las Vegas in 2017, it took 443 days for the United States to ban bump stocks, the attachments that enable semiautomatic rifles to fire in sustained, rapid bursts, which the gunman used in the attack. And after a mass shooting at a high school in Parkland, Fla., last year led to a wave of student activism, the House of Representatives voted to require background checks for all gun purchasers in February. It was the first significant gun control bill to clear the chamber in a quarter of a century, but it was unlikely to even be taken up in the Republican-controlled Senate.In most countries, mass shootings account for a small proportion of gun deaths. But they are often the political impetus for legislative change that can help prevent other kinds of gun violence, including intimate-partner violence and suicide.Here is a look at how some other countries took action after mass shootings.____Ms. Ardern said the overhauls planned in New Zealand were partially inspired by changes Australia made after a mass shooting there in 1996.After a gunman with a semiautomatic rifle killed 35 people near a popular tourist site in the Tasmanian town of Port Arthur, John Howard, Australia’s conservative prime minister at the time, introduced a federal law to officially make guns a privilege, not a right. Gun owners were forced to provide a valid reason for owning a weapon, such as farming or hunting. Licensing rules were tightened, a 28-day waiting period for gun purchases was imposed and a national gun registry was established.The overhaul also severely restricted firearms, including a ban on almost all automatic and semiautomatic rifles, as well as shotguns. Australia bought back more than 650,000 firearms, to the resentment of many rural gun owners.Australia has not had a shooting as deadly as the Port Arthur massacre since 1996. Research shows the country also saw a decline in homicide and suicide after the legislative change, although researchers disagree about whether the ban can be credited for reducing homicides, which had already been declining.Australia is a much smaller country than the United States and also had fewer barriers to enacting gun control: There is no constitutional right to bear arms, for example, and there are no pro-gun lobbying groups with the influence of the National Rifle Association.____In 1987, a gunman in the southern English town of Hungerford killed 16 people, leading to tough British laws that required shotgun owners to register their weapons and prohibited semiautomatic weapons.Nearly a decade later, another gunman walked into a primary school in Dublane, Scotland, and killed 16 small children and their teacher. The gunman had been granted permits for all four guns used in the shooting, including two semiautomatic pistols.Afterward, the British government took action to limit gun ownership by civilians. By the end of 1997, Parliament had outlawed the private ownership of nearly all handguns.____In 2002, a 19-year-old expelled student returned to his high school in Erfurt, in eastern Germany, armed, and killed 16 people.That year, the German government tightened gun laws, including raising the legal age for carrying sports weapons to 21 from 18 and requiring gun buyers under 25 to present certification that they are medically and psychologically fit.Germany strengthened gun laws even further after another shooting in 2009, when a 17-year-old got his hands on one of his father’s guns and went on a rampage at his school in Winnenden, in southwest Germany, killing 15 people. The new regulations included allowing for random checks on weapons owners.As of 2015, gun-related crimes were far more unusual in Germany than in the United States.____Canada has had tough restrictions on handguns and automatic weapons since the 1930s. But the rules were expanded to include rifles and shotguns after a gunman with a semiautomatic hunting rifle stormed an engineering school in Montreal in 1989.Shouting “I hate feminists,” he separated the women from the men and killed 14 female students before turning the gun on himself.After that shooting, rifles and other long guns had to be registered like handguns and a majority of semiautomatic weapons. Gun owners were also required to obtain a license.But the long gun registry was unpopular in rural and northern areas, and, over the objections of police forces and some provinces, was abolished in 2012.Efforts to keep track of rifle and shotgun sales — the majority of firearms in Canada — continue to be much debated. The province of Quebec introduced its own long gun registry last year.Max Fisher contributed reportingFollow Sarah Mervosh on Twitter: @smervoshAdvertisementSupported byPresident Trump said a border wall is needed to block illegal guns, drugs and cash coming from Mexico. But much of the contraband he pointed to came through legal ports of entry.By Mitchell FermanMcALLEN, Tex. — President Trump traveled to the Rio Grande Valley earlier this month and made his case for building a wall on the Southern border — needed, he said, to keep America safe from a variety of dangers that are continuing to make their way across the frontier from Mexico.To help make his point, the evidence was laid out on tables: a big bag of cash, bundles of drugs, high-powered firearms, all confiscated by law enforcement agents working the borderlands in South Texas.“This is just all recent. This is all very recent,” Mr. Trump said, pointing to the illicit exhibit in front of him. Mr. Trump was not shy about his disgust for the illegal goods: “It looks pretty brutal. This is not a manufactured deal, as you say. This is the real stuff.”But the display at the president’s Jan. 10 round table, it turns out, had little to do with what happens along unfortified reaches of the border. An examination of the seized items suggests that a border wall would not have stopped most of the items from entering the United States, or, in the case of several weapons displayed in front of the president, from leaving the United States for Mexico.Many of the items on display were seized on international bridges on the Texas border, detected by canines and Customs and Border Protection officers. Some of them were found during traffic stops or, in one case, inside a South Texas home, and it’s hard to know how they entered the country.“It’s not complex,” the president said, after various officials described the items on the table. “If we don’t have a barrier, a very substantial barrier of some kind, you’re never going to be able to solve this problem.”But of course, the story of illegal border trafficking is complex. And one of the biggest takeaways to be gleaned from Mr. Trump’s exhibit table was that nearly all of the items were intercepted by vigilant border agents — federal employees who have not been paid since the fight over a border wall led to a partial shutdown of the federal government on Dec. 22.The tableau in front of Mr. Trump included an AK-47 assault rifle and multiple 9-millimeter handguns. Though Mr. Trump seemed to take credit for the “all recent” seizures of illegal goods, these weapons were actually seized in June 2016, the month before Mr. Trump officially won the Republican nomination for president.When a vehicle drove south from the Texas border town of Mission and onto the Anzalduas International Bridge bound for Mexico, C.B.P. officers searched the car and found the weapons, according to an agency spokesman. There were also 20 ammunition magazines found in the vehicle, the spokesman said.American-made guns have illegally flowed south into Mexico in large numbers for years. A 2013 study by the University of San Diego found that nearly half of American firearms dealers are dependent on Mexican sales, with an estimated 253,000 firearms purchased annually between 2010 and 2012 to be taken across the border.Stacks of $20 bills bundled in a plastic bag totaling $362,062 sat on one table. Just days before the president arrived in McAllen, the cash had been inside the South Texas home of Edsgardo Coss-Vallejo.Mr. Coss-Vallejo had been living in the United States on a visa, but overstayed his allowed time in the country. When Hidalgo County authorities and federal agents showed up at his house to investigate, Mr. Coss-Vallejo allowed them inside to conduct a search of his home. Border Patrol canines alerted on a duffel bag containing the cash. Mr. Coss-Vallejo denied ownership of the money.Mr. Coss-Vallejo was arrested on suspicion of marriage fraud and currency smuggling, and he was deported to Mexico.After a large X-ray scanned a tractor-trailer entering Texas from Mexico at the Pharr-Reynosa International Bridge in September, Customs inspectors wanted a closer look. Canines did the rest and detected the drugs, according to a C.B.P. spokesman.Authorities found 117 kilograms of methamphetamines and 12.5 kilograms of heroin concealed in the ceiling of the truck, the spokesman said. A majority of heroin that enters the United States from Mexico crosses not through remote stretches of unfenced desert, but through legal ports of entry, such as the border crossing in Pharr, Tex. “But there’s no way to know how much gets through,” said Fulton T. Armstrong, who has worked as a national intelligence officer at the Central Intelligence Agency, on the National Security Council and on the Senate Foreign Relations Committee, focusing on Latin America.“The biggest shipments come through legal, established ports of entry,” Mr. Armstrong said in an interview, though he added that there are also examples of drug smuggling that do not occur at official border crossings. Mr. Armstrong added: “Carrying this stuff requires sophistication. You don’t just put it in your pocket, you don’t carry large suitcases or bags when you come through non-ports of entry.”This has raised questions about Mr. Trump’s argument that a wall would help curb drug flows.“Would setting up a fence help? No. There’s no evidence at all,” Mr. Armstrong said.A .50-caliber sniper rifle took up a big part of one wooden table, with an AR-15 rifle positioned flat on its side alongside it.In November 2017, Homeland Security Investigations agents, working on a tip from C.B.P., found the sniper rifle during a traffic stop in South Texas, according to a C.B.P. spokesman. The AR-15 was found the same way — by H.S.I. agents in South Texas, but in January 2018.It is unclear where the weapons were headed, or whether they even originated in Mexico. Border Patrol agents infrequently encounter firearms smuggled across the Rio Grande, or into the United States between bridge crossings. Again, most seem to be heading the other way.AdvertisementSupported byBy Catie EdmondsonWASHINGTON — The House voted on Wednesday to require background checks for all gun purchasers, including those at gun shows and on the internet — the first significant gun control bill to clear the chamber in a quarter of a century.The 240-to-190 vote is the first of two gun control measures expected to be put to House lawmakers this week, a turning point in gun legislation after 25 years when the National Rifle Association dominated the chamber. Last year’s massacre at Marjory Stoneman Douglas High School in Parkland, Fla., prompted a wave of student-led activism that pressed Democrats to unite around gun control, and the activists cheered when the measure cleared the 218-vote threshold for passage.The Democratic victory was tempered, however, after Republicans prevailed in adding a provision that would require the F.B.I. to alert Immigration and Customs Enforcement if an undocumented immigrant tried to obtain a firearm. Twenty-six Democrats, primarily from moderate or Republican-leaning districts, broke party lines to support the measure.But Speaker Nancy Pelosi of California and other Democrats insisted that would ultimately have little import.“Finally, we have done more than thoughts and prayers. Finally, we have taken a vote to expand background checks and help save lives,” said Representative Mike Thompson, Democrat of California, who leads the congressional Gun Violence Prevention Task Force.“For six long years, we worked on this issue, and the previous majority would not even let us have a hearing, let alone a vote to expand background checks,” Mr. Thompson said. “Today is a new day, and the show of support on both sides of the aisle for this important legislation is humbling.”More than 100 student activists, gun violence survivors and advocates — clad in a sea of orange scarves, ties and blazers to denote their support for the legislation — looked on from the House gallery as lawmakers advanced Mr. Thompson’s legislation, the Bipartisan Background Checks Act. It seeks to close loopholes that allow individuals to buy firearms on the internet or at gun shows without having to pass a background check.“We’ve been working toward this legislation for over a year now,” said Laura Kirk, 18, and a founder of a Students Demand Action high school chapter in Virginia. “It’s incredible to see our work translate into tangible results.”The Democrat-led House is expected to pass legislation on Thursday that would extend the amount of time the F.B.I. has to conduct background checks of gun purchasers, to 10 business days from three. It is an attempt to close the so-called Charleston loophole, which allowed Dylann Roof, the white supremacist who killed nine people in 2015 at a historically black church in Charleston, S.C., to buy a handgun even though he should have been barred from purchasing the weapon.It is “unlikely” that either measure will be taken up in the Republican-controlled Senate, Senator John Thune of South Dakota, the No. 3 Republican, said on Tuesday. House Republicans have flatly condemned both pieces of legislation, arguing the measures would be both ineffective and infringe on law-abiding citizens’ rights.The House bill that was approved on Wednesday “is taking the fears and concerns of a nation over gun violence and perpetrating a fraud on them,” said Representative Doug Collins of Georgia, the top Republican on the Judiciary Committee. “The reality is nothing in this bill would have stopped Parkland, or stopped any of the other violence we have seen.”Gunmen at the center of a number of high-profile mass shootings passed background checks and legally purchased the firearms they used. But gun control activists have praised both background check measures as a critical first step in a broader drive to reduce gun violence.“America’s current background check system is like having two types of security lines at the airport: one for people who are willing to be screened, and one you can waltz right through carrying whatever you want,” said John Feinblatt, the president of Everytown for Gun Safety. “We applaud the House for moving so quickly.”Once divided on the issue, House Democrats returned to the majority, promising meaningful action on gun control, with aid from advocacy groups backing candidates who made the issue central to their campaigns. Michael Bloomberg, the former mayor of New York, spent around $100 million in the midterms last year to elect gun control supporters, according to Everytown.The group will continue its push this week with $400,000 in digital ads urging lawmakers to support the legislation as it tries to break through the Senate.One of the new freshman Democrats supported by Mr. Bloomberg, Representative Lucy McBath of Georgia, had a 17-year-old son, Jordan, killed by gun violence.“Turning her grief and her tragedy into action and courage, to run for Congress, to stand on this floor and share her personal story with us — that takes real courage,” Ms. Pelosi said from the House floor, adding that the statistics of gun violence victims “spell out the story, but it is the human, personal stories that change minds.”Wednesday’s vote, Ms. Pelosi said, sends “a clear message to the families of those who have lost their loved ones to gun violence, that we have crossed a threshold here today to reduce gun violence in our country.”The Republican measure attached to the bill would present a problem if a version of the gun bill cleared the Senate. The measure has angered liberals in the House, who would like to see it removed in House-Senate negotiations.AdvertisementSupported byBy ReutersMEXICO CITY — Mexican police and federal officials on Saturday detained 107 Central American migrants seeking to enter the United States in the border city of Reynosa, the government of the northeastern state of Tamaulipas said.Following a tip-off, state police intercepted a group of migrants who had been taken out of trucks in a western part of the city, which lies across the border from McAllen, Texas.At the scene, unidentified gunmen began shooting at police, and one of the attackers was killed in the ensuing exchange of fire, the Tamaulipas government said in a statement.The statement said police seized a firearm and cartridges but did not provide details on whether any gunmen were arrested or who they were.Separately, police discovered a group of Central American men and women on the edge of a highway in Reynosa. They called in federal migration officials, who are now reviewing the legal status of the Central Americans detained, the government said.The National Migration Institute counted 51 Guatemalans, 47 Hondurans and 9 Salvadorans detained in total, it added.AdvertisementSupported byBy ReutersSYDNEY — Australia's nationalist One Nation party allegedly sought millions of dollars from the U.S. gun lobby and discussed weakening the country's strict gun control laws with the U.S. National Rifle Association (NRA), Al Jazeera reported.Posing as the head of a fake Australian pro-gun lobby, Al Jazeera secretly filmed top officials from Pauline Hanson's One Nation allegedly meeting NRA executives in Washington in 2018. It also reported the One Nation officials discussing the possibility of raising A$20 million ($14.22 million) prior to a meeting with a U.S. gun lobby supporter.Concerned about foreign influence in Australian politics, particularly from China, the government introduced laws banning foreign political donations in November last year. The One Nation meetings took place in September."Reports that senior One Nation officials courted foreign political donations from the U.S. gun lobby to influence our elections and undermine our gun laws that keep us safe are deeply concerning," Australian Prime Minister Scott Morrison Tweeted on Tuesday.One Nation confirmed in a statement their two representatives attended the meetings, but there was no evidence in the Al Jazeera TV report, aired late on Monday, that a donation was made.Calls and emails to the NRA headquarters in Virginia were not immediately returned.Australia has some of the world's strictest firearm laws, implemented after a lone gunman killed 35 people at Port Arthur on the island state of Tasmania in 1996.Australia banned semi-automatic weapons, launched a firearm buy-back scheme after the massacre, and imposed strict licensing rules which require weapons to be locked up when not in use.Al Jazeera said the report was three years in the making.In the report, One Nation's chief-of-staff James Ashby and Queensland state leader Steve Dickson can be seen allegedly telling NRA officials that with its help the party could win enough seats to gain the balance of power in Australia's upper house of parliament."We get the balance of power, very simply that means that we have the testicles of the government in our hand at every given stage," says Dickson. "Guns, in the scheme of things, are still going to be the be-all and end-all."In another meeting with a U.S. gun lobby supporter, Dickson says: "It's going to get down to money at the end of the day. We can change the voting system in our country, the way people operate, if we've got the money to do it."Ashby confirmed One Nation had been invited to attend the meetings but he accused Al Jazeera of interfering in Australia's looming national election, due in May."The matter has been referred to ASIO (the Australian Security Intelligence Organisation) and the Australian Federal Police due to concerns of foreign interference into Australian politics in the lead-up to the imminent federal election," Ashby said in the emailed statement.The footage allegedly records an NRA lobbyist telling both Dickson and Ashby that it would benefit the U.S. pro-gun movement if Australia's gun laws were relaxed."That helps us because the biggest argument we get from folks is, 'Well look at Australia'," he says.The role of One Nation in promoting right-wing nationalism in Australia has come under the spotlight in recent days following the killing of 50 Muslims in New Zealand, allegedly by an Australian white supremacist.Nationalists have struggled to gain a significant voting bloc in Australia's parliament, although One Nation did wield considerable influence in the upper house between 2016 and 2018.AdvertisementSupported byBy Liam Stack and Jacey FortinRead Thursday’s story on the shooting at a bank in Florida that police say left five dead.The call came in at 12:37 p.m. Wednesday. A 21-year old gunman, clad in a T-shirt that bore the image of four scythe-wielding grim reapers on horseback, wanted the police to know that he had just opened fire in a bank in the small city of Sebring, Fla., the police said.“I have shot five people,” he told a dispatcher, according to a police statement. There were only five people in the bank at the time, the police said, and they all died.When the Sebring Police Department and the Highlands County Sheriff’s Office responded to the SunTrust Bank branch on U.S. Route 27, they said, they found the shooter barricaded inside. What followed was a tense standoff with police negotiators that ended when an armored police vehicle rammed into the bank doors, shattering their glass, video footage shows.The police said in a statement that negotiators and members of the SWAT team “persuaded the suspect to surrender.” Video from the scene shows officers inching toward the broken glass with their firearms drawn. They soon emerged with the suspect in handcuffs.“We are sorry to learn that we have at least five victims, people who were senselessly murdered, as a result of his act in this bank,” Chief Karl Hoglund of the Sebring police said at a brief news conference late Wednesday afternoon in this city 80 miles south of Orlando.He identified the man in custody as Zephen Xaver, 21, a resident of Sebring. The police said they were still investigating the motive for what the police chief called “coldblooded murder.”Mr. Xaver was being held at Highlands County Jail and was charged with five counts of first-degree premeditated murder.At a court hearing on Thursday morning, Judge Anthony Ritenour ordered him to be held without bail. Mr. Xaver, who was wearing a black and white jumpsuit, stood before the judge and responded, “Yes, sir,” when asked whether he had no income or assets. Judge Ritenour granted a public defender to represent Mr. Xaver.On Wednesday, Chief Hoglund told reporters that investigators had not finished identifying the victims. “This is a very dynamic and ongoing investigation,” he added.Mr. Xaver had recently been training to work as a correctional officer at Avon Park Correctional Institution, a prison about 20 miles north of the bank where the shooting occurred, said Patrick Manderfield, a spokesman for the Florida Department of Corrections.He was hired as a trainee in November and resigned on Jan. 9, Mr. Manderfield said. He had no disciplinary record with the department.Gov. Ron DeSantis, who traveled to the area on Wednesday afternoon, posted a  message from him and his wife, Casey DeSantis, on Twitter.“This is a terrible day for Sebring, Highlands County and for the state of Florida,” Mr. DeSantis said. “Casey and I extend our most sincere condolences and sympathies to the families and loved ones of the victims. The people of Florida stand with the community of Sebring.”The governor said the gunman was “an individual that needs to face very swift and exacting justice.”Bill Rogers, the chairman and C.E.O. of SunTrust, said in a statement that the company was “working with officials and dedicating ourselves to fully addressing the needs of all the individuals and families involved.” He said the company was “deeply saddened” by the loss of life at the bank.Sebring, a sleepy city of about 10,000 whose meandering borders are dotted with lakes, boasts a historic downtown and an international raceway. On Wednesday night, it was swarming with wailing police cars, buzzing helicopters and media vehicles.“We have a whole lot more questions right now than answers,” said Don Elwell, a member of the Highlands County Board of County Commissioners. Both the shootings and the lack of information had left the community in shock, he said.“For us — I have some family in Las Vegas, where there was that big shooting, and they said, ‘We’re sorry to welcome you to our club,’” Mr. Elwell said on Wednesday, referring to a 2017 shooting that killed 59 people. “Obviously that was a different scale, but here in little Sebring it might as well be the same.”The episode on Wednesday is just the latest of several high-profile shootings in Florida that have roiled the state in recent months.Last February, a young gunman barged into his former high school in Parkland, Fla., opening fire on terrified students and teachers and leaving 17 dead. In August, a man with a handgun killed two people at a video-game tournament in Jacksonville, Fla., before fatally shooting himself. And last fall, a man walked into a yoga studio in Tallahassee, Fla., and shot six people — two fatally — before killing himself.Florida, which bears the official nickname the Sunshine State, is sometimes referred to as the Gunshine State because of its traditionally loose restrictions on firearms. But in March 2018, in the wake of the Parkland shooting, Rick Scott, who was then the governor, signed an array of gun limits into law that included raising the minimum age to purchase a firearm to 21 and extending the waiting period to three days.It was the most aggressive action on gun control taken in the state in decades, and the National Rifle Association almost immediately sued.Wendy Thompson, Matt Stevens and Julia Jacobs contributed reporting. Jack Begg contributed research.AdvertisementSupported byBy Serge F. KovaleskiWhen the gunman in the Las Vegas mass shooting died, he left behind a hoard of guns and firearm accessories in his two Nevada homes and the hotel suite he used as a perch for his attack.All told, the gunman, Stephen Paddock, owned 50 guns, from pistols to high-powered long arms, and almost 40 firearm components including scopes, a red dot sight, bi-pods and rifle cases. A special administrator appointed by a state court judge to determine the value of Mr. Paddock’s estate said in a recent report that the guns and equipment were worth about $62,340.Now, the main lawyer involved in passing on Mr. Paddock’s nearly $1.4 million estate to the families of the 58 people he slaughtered at an outdoor country music festival is facing a quandary. Should the firearms be sold to raise as much money as possible for the bereaved, or would it be more appropriate to destroy the guns in an emblematic rejection of the kind of violence that Mr. Paddock carried out?“The money that would come from selling the guns is not a huge amount, but it would help to make a difference in peoples’ lives,” said Alice Denton, the lawyer for the special administrator in the estate case.On the other hand, Ms. Denton added, “Destroying the guns would send more of a symbolic message to the world that weapons like these should not be sold at any price if death or harm to innocent people cannot be prevented.”She said the estate would solicit feedback from the families of those killed and review applicable laws before a decision would be made on how to proceed. In the meantime, the guns and accessories are in the possession of the F.B.I.In an email message, a spokeswoman for the bureau’s Las Vegas field office, Sandra Breault, declined to comment on whether the F.B.I. would return some or all of the weapons to the estate. “This part of the investigation is still ongoing,” she wrote.Mr. Paddock died without a will. Lawyers for the victims encouraged Mr. Paddock’s mother — who, under Nevada law, became the heir by default — to give his assets to the estates of the 58 people killed by her son. The mother, Irene Hudson, transferred her right to inherit the estate in March of last year.In addition to those killed, hundreds of others were injured in the shooting. However, lawyers say the compensation should go to the loved ones of the dead rather than the injured, saying the money would have greater impact on their lives than if the large number of people hurt in the rampage were also beneficiaries.The conundrum over what to do with Mr. Paddock’s firearms underscores the increasingly complex and delicate considerations that have arisen for victims and their relatives as mass shootings have become a more frequent part of American life today.The case also comes as an unparalleled number of gun control laws were passed in states around the country in the 15 months since the Las Vegas shooting on Oct. 1, 2017.Mynda Smith, 43, whose older sister was fatally shot by Mr. Paddock, said she saw no point in destroying the guns he owned.“My initial reaction is that destroying them is not going to change anything and it won’t bring any goodness,” Ms. Smith said. “But if some good can come out of selling them, I am for it.”For Kyle Taylor, 32, whose father died in the massacre, deciding on the best use of Mr. Paddock’s weapons was “a moral dilemma.”“The more money you could raise to help the families is great,” Mr. Taylor said. “But the idea of receiving money from equipment that was used by someone who took so many lives is creepy and unsettling.”In the special administrator’s inventory of the estate, 23 rifles and a revolver were listed as having been found in Mr. Paddock’s room at the Mandalay Bay Resort and Casino. They were given a total value of $41,050.At Mr. Paddock’s home in Mesquite, Nev., $18,439 worth of guns and accessories — seven rifles, seven shotguns and five handguns — were found. And two shotguns and five handguns, with a combined value of just over $2,800, were collected from his Reno house, the inventory report showed.Overall, each of the 58 families would receive about $24,000 once Mr. Paddock’s estate is divided up equally. Included in that figure would be a payout of close to $1,100 per family if the firearms were to be sold.The cache of guns that belonged to Mr. Paddock — who attained significant wealth through high-stakes gambling and modest real estate deals before he lost much of it — is just one piece of his estate. It also includes a pair of houses, both in scenic retirement communities, an investment property and bank accounts.Among the other items in the estate are two gaming vouchers, totaling more than $30,000, from the Mandalay Bay. It was from an upper floor room in the hotel that Mr. Paddock started firing at concertgoers on the Vegas Strip, in what was the worst mass shooting in modern American history. He then took his own life.The inventory of Mr. Paddock’s estate also showed that he had $455,758 in 13 bank and brokerage accounts.The situation with the Paddock weapons is not unprecedented. When the federal government sought to hold an internet auction of personal items belonging to Theodore J. Kaczynski, who was sentenced to life in prison for the Unabomber crimes, several victims pursuing restitution from him were initially reluctant to agree to such a sale.Although the money from the sale of Mr. Kaczynski’s writings, sunglasses, clothing and other possessions would go to them, the victims feared that the auction would bring Mr. Kaczynski more publicity and further expose their suffering. One victim who was not seeking restitution said he hoped that Mr. Kaczynski’s property would be destroyed or sealed for at least a century and then made available to “scholars of depravity.”The auction went ahead in 2011 and raised more than $232,000 for the victims. Mr. Kaczynski carried out 16 mail bombings from 1978 to 1995 that killed three people and injured 28.Though the matter of how best to handle Mr. Paddock’s guns remains unresolved, the estate has made progress in other areas. On Thursday, the judge overseeing the estate case approved the sale of Mr. Paddock’s Mesquite home to an Oregon couple for $425,000.His residence in Reno is still on the market for $374,900, a reduction from the original listing price of $399,000 in July.Bernadette Jones, who, with her husband, Daniel, bought the Mesquite home, said in an interview that the property met their criteria and that they were not spooked by the fact that it had belonged to one of America’s most notorious mass murderers, who stored many of his guns there.“There is room to build a pool, it is a nice clean house that has hardly been lived in and there are nice neighbors who have been through a lot,” Ms. Jones said.She added: “We feel that our discernment is very good, and if we felt that things were not right, we would have walked away. If he had any personal items in there, buying would have been out of the question.”The Joneses, who are in their 60s, had been looking to relocate to the area since the summer of 2017 to escape the dreary weather of Albany, Ore.Ms. Denton, the lawyer, said that the 58 families would not see any money raised by the estate for at least another year to give creditors time to file any claims.Although lawyers for many of the surviving victims have said their clients will not sue the estate, in order to preserve it, Ms. Denton pointed out that “the agreements are not in writing and they can change their minds at any time.”AdvertisementSupported byBy Julia JacobsA man suspected in the killing of the Grammy-nominated rapper and community advocate Nipsey Hussle was charged on Thursday with murder, the Los Angeles County District Attorney’s Office said.The man, Eric R. Holder Jr., 29, was arrested on Tuesday, two days after Nipsey Hussle was fatally shot while standing outside a store he owned in South Los Angeles with two other men. Prosecutors charged Mr. Holder with one count of murder, two counts of attempted murder and one count of possession of a firearm by a felon.If convicted, Mr. Holder would face a maximum sentence of life in prison. He pleaded not guilty to the charges at his arraignment on Thursday, a spokesman for the district attorney’s office said.Mr. Holder’s defense lawyer, Chris Darden, declined to comment.According to video evidence cited by the police, Mr. Holder walked up to Nipsey Hussle and the two men who were with him several times before leaving and returning with a handgun. He fired several times before fleeing in a white Chevy Cruze that was driven by an unidentified woman.The chief of the Los Angeles Police Department, Michel R. Moore, said at a news conference on Tuesday that investigators believed the shooting was rooted in a personal dispute between Nipsey Hussle and Mr. Holder. Chief Moore said that Mr. Holder was believed to be a member of a gang, but that the police did not think the shooting was related to gang rivalries.The death of Nipsey Hussle, who was born Ermias Joseph Asghedom, prompted grief and outrage by residents in the Crenshaw neighborhood, where the rapper grew up and maintained a regular presence even after he became a successful artist. His fans held deep appreciation for his financial investment in the community, which has long struggled with violent crime, and saw him as a symbol of hope and self-improvement.AdvertisementSupported byBy ReutersSYDNEY — Australia's nationalist One Nation party allegedly sought millions of dollars from the U.S. gun lobby and discussed weakening the country's strict gun control laws with the U.S. National Rifle Association, Al Jazeera reported.Posing as the head of a fake Australian pro-gun lobby, Al Jazeera secretly filmed top officials from Pauline Hanson's One Nation allegedly meeting NRA executives in Washington in 2018. The One Nation officials also discussed the possibility of raising A$20 million ($14.22 million) prior to a meeting with a U.S. gun lobby supporter, the report said.Concerned about foreign influence in Australian politics, particularly from China, the government introduced laws banning foreign political donations in November last year. The One Nation meetings took place in September."Reports that senior One Nation officials courted foreign political donations from the U.S. gun lobby to influence our elections and undermine our gun laws that keep us safe are deeply concerning," Australian Prime Minister Scott Morrison said in a post on Twitter on Tuesday.The two party representatives recorded in the Al Jazeera report, chief of staff James Ashby and Queensland state leader Steve Dickson, confirmed they attended the meetings but denied accepting a donation from the NRA."These conversations with the NRA were to look at nothing more than their (campaign) techniques," Ashby told reporters in Brisbane. "This was not about sourcing money from the NRA."NRA spokesman Andrew Arulanandam referred questions about Al Jazeera's report to the group's lobbying arm, the NRA Institute for Legislative Action. NRA-ILA spokeswoman Jennifer Baker said the group had no comment on the report.Australia has some of the world's strictest firearm laws, implemented after a lone gunman killed 35 people at Port Arthur on the island state of Tasmania in 1996.Australia banned semi-automatic weapons, launched a firearm buy-back scheme after the massacre, and imposed strict licensing rules which require weapons to be locked up when not in use.The role of One Nation in promoting right-wing nationalism in Australia has come under the spotlight in recent days following the killing of 50 Muslims in New Zealand earlier in March, allegedly by an Australian white supremacist. Al Jazeera said on its website the report was three years in the making.In the report, Ashby and Dickson can be heard allegedly telling NRA officials that with their help, the party could win enough seats to gain the balance of power in Australia's upper house of parliament."We get the balance of power, very simply that means that we have the testicles of the government in our hand at every given stage," says Dickson. "Guns, in the scheme of things, are still going to be the be-all and end-all."In another meeting with a U.S. gun lobby supporter, Dickson says: "It's going to get down to money at the end of the day. We can change the voting system in our country, the way people operate, if we've got the money to do it."The footage allegedly records an NRA lobbyist telling both Dickson and Ashby that it would benefit the U.S. pro-gun movement if Australia's gun laws were relaxed."That helps us because the biggest argument we get from folks is, 'Well, look at Australia,'" he says.In an emailed statement to Reuters, Ashby described the recordings as "skullduggery" and said he had referred the matter to the Australian Security Intelligence Organisation and the Australian Federal Police over concerns of foreign political interference in the lead-up to a federal election in May.Al Jazeera is Qatar's state-owned broadcaster. The head of its investigative unit who reported the segment, Peter Charley, said the allegation he was acting on behalf of a foreign government were "risible.""We're journalists doing a job," Charley told Reuters by telephone. "The original intention was to infiltrate the NRA. It was only quite late in the game that One Nation came into the frame."Nationalists have struggled to gain a significant voting bloc in Australia's parliament, although One Nation did wield considerable influence in the upper house between 2016 and 2018.The party fractured last year with several resignations, but it is hoping to regroup at the coming national election, with its support base being largely rural voters disillusioned with the major parties which they accuse of being city-focused. AdvertisementSupported byBy The Associated PressBALTIMORE — A Baltimore man who police say repeatedly threatened to kill officers responding to a report of an assault was found dead early Monday after at least one officer fired shots at him during an hourslong barricade.Police Commissioner Michael Harrison, who reviewed footage from cameras worn by police, told reporters at least two shots apparently were fired after officers arrived.When asked if the suspect was armed, Harrison said investigators were still processing the scene in northwest Baltimore."I'm confident that there is information for the officers to believe that he did have a firearm. But we have not interviewed the officers as of yet," he told reporters at police headquarters.Harrison said the officers who responded late Sunday interacted with the man by a door before he retreated inside, and "repeatedly threatened to kill the officers if they came any closer."Shortly after midnight, the suspect emerged by a rear door and one of the officers fired in his direction, causing him to retreat inside again, Harrison said. No officers were injured. Police have not identified the names or races of the responding officers.Hostage negotiators and SWAT team officers were activated. After several hours, a woman came outside the home and told police the suspect was "sleeping" inside, according to Harrison.SWAT team members then found the suspect unresponsive and he was pronounced dead at the scene.AdvertisementSupported byBy Reuters(Reuters) - Police are investigating a fire at a Southern California mosque on Sunday as a possible arson and hate crime after fresh graffiti on the driveway mentioned the mass shootings at two mosques in New Zealand, local media reported.Police and firefighters were called to the Islamic Center of Escondido, north of San Diego, about 3:15 a.m. (1015 GMT) on Sunday about a fire that blackened an outside wall, the San Diego Tribune and other media reported.Congregants at the center smelled smoke, spotted the fire and put it out before it caused serious damage, before firefighters arrived, media reported.No one was injured.But on the mosque's driveway, police found fresh graffiti that referenced the March 15 shootings at two mosques in Christchurch, New Zealand, that left 50 people dead and others seriously injured from a gunman who published a hate-filled manifesto on social media, police told the press.The exact words in the graffiti message were not released by police.Morning prayers at the mosque were canceled as law enforcement investigated the scene.Escondido Police Lieutenant Chris Lick told the Tribune and other media that it appeared that a chemical accelerant was used to set the fire.No suspects were reported.Along with local police and fire officials, agents with the FBI and Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives are investigating the case as both an arson and a hate crime, media reported.Yusef Miller, a spokesman for the Islamic community in Escondido told the Tribune that people at mosques across the region need to remain vigilant."Everyone is on edge," he told the paper. ""When they connected it to New Zealand, it gave us more of a mortal fear that something outlandish might happen."AdvertisementSupported byBy Sheryl Gay Stolberg and Catie EdmondsonWASHINGTON — House Democrats are poised this week to adopt legislation requiring background checks for all gun purchasers, the first major expansion of gun control laws in a quarter century and the opening salvo in a broader drive to address an issue that once sharply divided the party.In back-to-back votes, the House will take up two separate background check measures. On Wednesday it will consider the Bipartisan Background Checks Act, which would require background checks for all firearm sales, including those sold at gun shows and online. On Thursday it will turn to the Enhanced Background Checks Act, which would extend the time allotted for the F.B.I. to conduct background checks.The action in the House reflects dramatic changes in the political climate over guns that culminated with last year’s midterm elections. A string of mass shootings, coupled with student-led activism after last year’s massacre at Marjory Stoneman Douglas High School in Parkland, Fla., produced a wave of Democratic candidates — including some from Republican-leaning districts — who ran and won while calling for limits on access to guns.“It’s a real moment for the nation,” said one of those Democrats, Representative Lucy McBath of Georgia, who began advocating for gun control after her 17-year-old son, Jordan Davis, was shot dead in 2012. “We’re at a critical mass now where families are just saying they’ve had enough.”Both measures face dim prospects in the Republican-controlled Senate. Senator John Thune of South Dakota, the No. 3 Republican, said Tuesday it was “unlikely” the Senate would take them up.But this week’s House action is still significant. The last time Congress passed major gun control legislation was 1994, when an assault weapons ban was enacted, along with the so-called Brady Bill, which required background checks on most gun sales.Democrats were punished roundly at the polls that year, with Republicans taking control of Congress and not relinquishing it for 12 years. For years afterward, Democrats were skittish about taking up gun-related bills.The assault weapons ban expired in 2004, when Congress was under Republican control. When Democrats held the House from 2007 to 2011, no gun legislation was passed.“There are still differences within our party as to how far we want to go,” Representative Steny D. Hoyer of Maryland, the House Democratic leader, told reporters on Tuesday. But Mr. Hoyer said he is convinced that the two bills being voted on this week have the support of the “overwhelming majority of the American people.”Robin Lloyd, the managing director of the Giffords Law Center to Prevent Gun Violence, praised House Democrats for prioritizing the measures, noting that just a year ago, the Republican-controlled House tried — but failed — to pass legislation that would have required states to recognize concealed weapons permits issued in other states, effectively creating a national law allowing concealed weapons. That bill is a high priority for the National Rifle Association.“Now we’re having the opposite conversation, and I do think that demonstrates how quickly this shift has happened,” Ms. Lloyd said. “It is a paradigm shift from where we were even 18 months ago.”House Republicans, however, have been scathing in their criticism of the bills.“This bill turns law-abiding citizens into criminals and it’s one more step toward federalized gun registration and ultimately gun confiscation,” said Representative Steve Scalise of Louisiana, the Republican whip, who was shot in the hip and gravely wounded in 2017 when a gunman fired on members of the Republican congressional baseball team practicing in Virginia.Republicans including Mr. Scalise argue that expanding background checks would not have prevented many of the mass shootings that have garnered public attention in recent years. Most of those massacres were carried out with guns purchased legally by gunmen who passed background checks.The bills to expand background checks are the first in what could be a series of measures to address gun violence, said Representative Mike Thompson, Democrat of California, who leads a congressional Gun Violence Prevention Task Force. Mr. Thompson said the group has a “pretty aggressive schedule” and is bringing in experts to advise on what will reduce gun violence.Ms. McBath, a task force member, said the group is also looking at measures to reduce children’s access to guns, and also “red flag laws” that give authorities or household members the ability to seek court orders that would prohibit gun purchases by those deemed a risk to themselves or others.Congress did pass a modest gun-related bill last year, the so-called Fix Nics Act, which required federal agencies and states to do a better job of reporting criminal offenses and other information into the national instant check system, or Nics. And since the Parkland massacre, gun safety advocates have made great strides outside the capital; in 2018, legislators in 26 states and the District of Columbia passed 67 gun safety measures, according to a recent analysis by the Giffords Law Center.The last time Congress considered major gun safety legislation was in 2013, after the massacre that killed 20 children and six adults at the Sandy Hook Elementary School in Newtown, Conn.With survivors of mass shootings looking down from the gallery — and amid cries of “Shame on you!” — the Senate at that time fell short of the 60 votes required to break a filibuster on a bipartisan bill similar to the measure the House will take up Wednesday. That bill’s sponsors, Senators Joe Manchin III, Democrat of West Virginia, and Patrick J. Toomey, Republican of Pennsylvania, did not sound optimistic on Tuesday about the prospects for reviving it.“I need some help,” Mr. Manchin said. “I need some Republican help.”Mr. Toomey said he has been “working to try to find where we could get to consensus.” But, he added, “It’s looking like it’s an uphill battle to get 60 votes.”Thursday marks the 25th anniversary of the Brady Bill, named for James. S. Brady, the White House press secretary injured during an assassination attempt on President Ronald Reagan in 1981. That bill took more than six years and seven votes to pass, according to Kris Brown, president of the Brady Center to Prevent Gun Violence, which this week is rebranding itself under the name “Brady.” But it did not address gun show sales or sales over the internet, which have exploded since then.“For us at Brady, it’s a really meaningful and frankly almost emotional moment,” Ms. Brown said, referring to the coming House votes.Under federal law, if a gun consumer does not pass a background check instantly, the F.B.I. has three business days to determine whether there is sufficient evidence to deny a purchase. If they are unable to do so, on the fourth day, the purchaser can return to the dealer and buy a gun.AdvertisementSupported byBy Julie BosmanCHICAGO — Prosecutors in Illinois are challenging the prison sentence of Jason Van Dyke, the Chicago police officer who was convicted last year of killing Laquan McDonald and sentenced to nearly seven years in prison, a term that was criticized by many in Chicago as too lenient.In a petition filed Monday, Attorney General Kwame Raoul and Joseph McMahon, the special prosecutor in Mr. Van Dyke’s trial, asked the Illinois Supreme Court to review whether the sentence, after a conviction of second-degree murder, was proper under the law.“This is a question of whether the law was followed and whether a sentence was rendered on the appropriate charges,” Mr. Raoul, a Democrat who took office last month, said at a news conference on Monday, adding: “That is not a political question. That is a question of law.”At issue is whether Mr. Van Dyke, who was also convicted of 16 counts of aggravated battery with a firearm for each of the 16 shots he fired, should be sentenced for the aggravated batteries, which could result in a significantly longer prison term. Under his current sentence, exclusively for the second-degree murder conviction, he could be released from prison in as little as three years.Judge Vincent Gaughan ruled that he issued a sentence only on the second-degree murder charge because it was more serious than the aggravated battery counts.The prosecutors’ petition asks the Supreme Court to vacate Mr. Van Dyke’s sentence for second-degree murder and impose a sentence on each of the 16 counts of aggravated battery with a firearm.Prosecutors had originally asked the judge to issue a sentence of at least 18 years in prison.Darren O’Brien and Jennifer Blagg, Mr. Van Dyke’s lawyers, said in a joint statement that the petition was politically motivated, and that given the efforts to revisit Mr. Van Dyke’s prison term, he would now appeal his conviction. Mr. Van Dyke had earlier indicated that he was pleased with his sentence.The prosecutors “seek to turn the Illinois Supreme Court from a deliberative body into a political battleground,” the statement said. “The filing also opens up a Pandora’s box of legal issues that, in the long term, could result in grossly excessive, unjust sentences for defendants that follow in the wake of this request.”After the sentence was issued last month, Mr. McMahon, the special prosecutor, had appeared to be satisfied, saying at the time that “justice was served for Jason Van Dyke.”“It strikes a balance between holding Jason Van Dyke accountable and also recognizing his service as a police officer,” he said.On Monday, Mr. McMahon said that he has had “the benefit of some time” in considering whether to challenge the sentence.“I think the bigger message in this case is to make sure that the sentence that is imposed is a sentence that is lawful,” he said.Mr. McMahon said that this was the only legal avenue to challenge the legality of the sentence. He added that he believed that Laquan’s family was supportive of the prosecutors’ efforts.“Whatever the outcome, she would like this process to be over,” he said of Laquan’s mother, Tina Hunter.Mr. Van Dyke, who is white, shot and killed Laquan in October 2014 on the Southwest Side of Chicago as the black teenager walked down the street, carrying a pocketknife and ignoring officers’ orders to stop. A grainy video of Laquan’s death, recorded from the dashboard of a police car, was eventually released to the public, setting off widespread condemnation and protests.Mr. Van Dyke was the first Chicago police officer in almost 50 years to be convicted of murder.There is no deadline for the Supreme Court to decide whether to consider the petition. If it agrees to consider the petition, Mr. Van Dyke’s lawyers will have one week to file an objection.AdvertisementSupported byBy Julia JacobsAfter narcotics officers knocked down the door of a Houston home, the first one to enter was greeted by a charging dog and gunfire from a man wielding a .357 Magnum revolver, the authorities said on Tuesday.Nine undercover officers executed a search warrant on the home just before 5 p.m. on Monday; four were shot and one other officer was injured. The two people in the home, a 59-year-old man and a 58-year-old woman, were killed in the shootout, Chief Art Acevedo of the Houston Police Department said at a news conference on Tuesday morning.A Houston police official said Tuesday evening that the two most seriously wounded officers were expected to survive. They were in serious but stable condition.A third officer, who was shot in the shoulder, had been released from the hospital on Monday night, and another who was shot in the face was released Tuesday. A fifth officer, who was not shot but underwent knee surgery, was hospitalized in good condition, the police said.Earlier Tuesday, Chief Acevedo had said that one of the seriously wounded officers was “in a really tough fight.”On Monday evening, the nine officers knocked down the door of a home in a working-class neighborhood about seven miles southeast of downtown Houston. The raid followed a tip from a neighbor that the house was being used for drug deals, the chief said.The first officer to enter the home was immediately charged by a pit bull and shot at by the man inside the home, identified as Dennis Tuttle, Chief Acevedo said. The officer, 33, who has been with the Police Department for 10 years, fatally shot the dog and was struck on his shoulder, falling onto the sofa.Chief Acevedo said that the woman in the home, Rhogena Nicholas, then reached over that officer to grab his shotgun. Backup officers then opened fire at Ms. Nicholas, he said.At one point, Mr. Tuttle stuck his gun through the doorway and opened fire at the officers, the police said.Knowing that his fellow officers inside the house had been shot, a 54-year-old officer who had been with the department for 32 years entered the home and was shot in the face, the police said. At the news conference, Chief Acevedo said that after the raid, the officer passed a note to a colleague at the hospital. It said: “I had to get in there because I knew my guys were down,” he said.The police said they were not publicly identifying the injured officers because of “security concerns.”Although the police had said on Monday that they staged the raid because they believed black tar heroin was being dealt out of the home, the chief said the substance was not discovered during the raid. The police found marijuana and a white powdery substance that they said could be cocaine or fentanyl. They also recovered five guns, Chief Acevedo said.Public records indicate that Mr. Tuttle and Ms. Nicholas were married in December 1998.For a few hours, the neighborhood was plunged into chaos, as dozens of officers — some dressed in camouflage and carrying shotguns — moved through on foot. Helicopters circled overhead. One neighbor said the area sounded like a “war zone.”Chief Acevedo said the turbulent raid was an example of the country’s “epidemic” of gun violence.“We live in a society where there’s a proliferation of firearms,” he said, “where you can assume there’ll be firearms just about every location that you hit.”Manny Fernandez and Mihir Zaveri contributed reporting. Alain Delaquйriиre contributed research.AdvertisementSupported byBy ReutersROME — The Italian parliament on Thursday approved a law making it harder for judges to hand down tough sentences on people who shoot robbers on their premises.The so-called "legitimate defense" law was a victory for Matteo Salvini, leader of the hard-right League party which formed a government last June with the anti-establishment 5-Star Movement.Violent crime in Italy has declined in recent years, according to interior ministry data, with murders down 16.3 percent year-on-year in the 12 months to August 2018, and armed robbery down 12.3 percent.However, Interior Minister and Deputy Prime Minister Salvini has kept the issue high on the political agenda, offering his public support to people prosecuted for shooting robbers. "This is a wonderful day for Italians," he told reporters after the bill was passed in the Senate following its approval in the Chamber of Deputies. "Finally we are definitively guaranteeing the sacrosanct principle of legitimate defense for people who are attacked in their homes, their shops or their bars."By affirming that defense is always legitimate when people feel threatened by would-be robbers on their property, the legislation makes it harder for judges to pass tough sentences on those who shoot them.Home-owners can no longer be accused of excessive violence if they can show that they shot burglars "in a state of grave confusion due to the situation of danger".The bill also increases prison sentences for burglary and armed robbery. Center-left parties and some magistrates say the law will be difficult to interpret, will increase the use of firearms, and risks giving people the idea they can shoot intruders with impunity.AdvertisementSupported byBy The Associated PressCANBERRA, Australia — Police in Australia set off a panic when they locked down a Melbourne train station on Thursday after a street entertainer's instrument was mistaken for a rifle.Commuters described panic at Melbourne's Flagstaff Station when police in body armor carrying assault rifles stopped a train during morning rush hour. Terrified passengers were in tears and phoned relatives to tell them they were loved.Police said a passenger reported busker Will Austin behaving suspiciously on a train as he performed breathing exercises in preparation for playing his didgeridoo, a polished-wood indigenous wind instrument which he carried in a bag mistakenly described to police as a rifle case.Austin said he was stopped by police after he got off the train at the station. He was concentrating on his smart phone at the time."Everyone was running and I probably looked pretty suspicious, I suppose, just waltzing around and slowly walking out of Flagstaff and I think that's where police stopped me," Austin told reporters."A few police officers approached me — they kind of chased after me to catch up because I was on my way, but one requested to look in my bag," he added.Victoria state Police Chief Commissioner Graham Ashton said no firearm was found and the train was allowed to proceed.Train passenger Sarsha Vadocz said she was unconcerned at first when the train stopped for five minutes at the station. Then someone yelled there was a gunman on the train and passengers dived to the floor.AdvertisementSupported byBy The Associated PressWASHINGTON — The Supreme Court on Thursday declined to stop the Trump administration from enforcing its ban on bump stock devices, which allow semi-automatic weapons to fire like machine guns.The ban took effect Tuesday. Gun rights groups asked the court Monday to keep the government from enforcing the ban for now. Chief Justice John Roberts declined one request for the court to get involved on Tuesday and a second request was declined by the court on Thursday. That was the only remaining request. The justices didn't say anything in declining it.The administration's ban puts it in the unusual position of arguing against gun rights groups. President Donald Trump said last year that the government would move to ban bump stocks. The action followed a 2017 shooting in Las Vegas in which a gunman attached bump stocks to assault-style rifles he used to shoot concertgoers from his hotel room. By using the devices, which allow shots to be fired more rapidly, the gunman was able to fire more than 1,000 rounds in 11 minutes. Fifty-eight people were killed and hundreds were injured.The Trump administration's move was an about-face for the federal Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives. In 2010, under the Obama administration, the ATF found that the devices were legal. But under the Trump administration, officials revisited that determination and found it incorrect. The revised regulation, which went into effect Tuesday, requires owners either to destroy their bump stocks or surrender them. The government estimates hundreds of thousands of the devices have been sold.AdvertisementSupported byletterTo mark the anniversary of the Parkland shooting last Valentine’s Day, a reader calls on Americans to choose activism over chocolates. To the Editor:Re “9 Last-Minute Valentine’s Day Ideas” (nytimes.com, Feb. 11):Valentine’s Day is a day scarred for us all. It marks our collective failure to do our most basic duty: protect our children. It is impossible to go through this day with stuffed bears, chocolates and improv comedy when 17 beautiful lives were taken away on Valentine’s Day last year at Marjory Stoneman Douglas High School. We have failed to protect our children’s lives, time and time again. We failed those children in Parkland. We failed the 20 precious young lives in Sandy Hook. We failed the 12 beloved teenagers in Columbine. They will never send a Candygram or get a love letter from a high school crush. They will never have a little son or daughter hand them a homemade, heart-shaped card with scrawlings of love. Valentine’s Day is a time for activism, for us to do our basic duty of forcing our leaders, our businesses and ourselves to enact laws that stop children from being murdered. Improve campus safety. Strengthen mental health supports and screenings. Enact responsible firearms laws.AdvertisementSupported byBy ReutersMANILA — The Philippines has filed a diplomatic protest over the presence of more than 200 Chinese boats near an island occupied by Manila in the disputed South China Sea, the president's spokesman said on Monday.President Rodrigo Duterte has pursued warmer ties with China since taking office in 2016 in exchange for billions of dollars of pledged loans and investment.The Department of Foreign Affairs protested against the vessels near the Philippines-occupied Thitu island, presidential spokesman Salvador Panelo told a regular news conference, without describing the boats. The Chinese ambassador said they were fishing boats."The mere fact that they are there and just staying there for a week, why, what are they doing there?" Panelo said. It was unclear when and where the Philippines filed the protest.The Philippines monitored more than 200 Chinese boats near Thitu, locally called Pagasa, in January to March this year, military data showed.The Philippines, China, Vietnam, Taiwan, Brunei and Malaysia have competing claims of sovereignty in the waterway, a conduit for in excess of $3.4 trillion of goods.Lights from hundreds of buildings in China's sprawling artificial islands can be seen at night from Thitu.Both Chinese and Filipino fishermen are present in the contested waters, Zhao Jianhua, China's ambassador to the Philippines, told reporters. He denied media reports that Chinese fishermen were carrying firearms.Beijing and Manila were handling maritime issues through friendly and diplomatic channels, Zhao said."You don't have to worry about whether there would be any kind of outbreak of conflict or not," he said.The announcement of the diplomatic protest came as the Philippines and United States, a treaty ally, kicked off an annual joint military exercise involving roughly 7,500 troops, including 50 from Australia.They are aimed at enhancing response to natural disasters."It's not directed to any threat or existing security concern," military exercise director Lt. Gen. Gilbert Gapay told reporters.AdvertisementSupported byBy The Associated PressCHARLESTON, W.Va. — A Missouri man who threatened President Donald Trump and sped to the White House with a gun had driven 13 hours without stopping before he was pulled over along a West Virginia highway Wednesday, a trooper said.Eric Leonardo Charron of Kansas City, Missouri, was arraigned in Preston County Magistrate Court on Thursday in Kingwood on charges of reckless driving and being a prohibited person in possession of a firearm.State police said Charron was going 130 mph (209 kph) — nearly twice the speed limit — on Interstate 68 when he was pulled over near Bruceton Mills. The incident prompted the interstate to be closed for nearly four hours.Trooper D.W. Satterfield said in a criminal complaint that Charron, 42, indicated he was traveling to the White House and that he was running late to a dinner he was invited to by Trump. The suspect also said he had to travel to the Pentagon "to meet with the leader of the Army to return a phone," according to the complaint.Charron later said he had "special hearing" that "would tell him to do bad things once he arrived at the White House or The Pentagon," Satterfield said, adding the "special hearing" also told Charron to remove Satterfield's gun from its holster while being transported from the traffic stop.Satterfield said a vehicle search turned up a handgun, 300 rounds of ammunition and gunpowder. In addition, manuscripts written by Charron contained "subjects ranging from time travel, levitating watercraft, and mythical creatures such as the 'Chupacubra.'"The trooper said Charron admitted using methamphetamine recently and his pupils were dilated despite bright conditions outside. Charron had driven through the night from his hometown, authorities said. The trooper didn't notice any luggage in the vehicle.Satterfield asked Charron why the vehicle's remote key would not open the trunk, and Charron stated he had tampered with the fuses in an effort to "keep the CIA from listening to him through the radio."AdvertisementSupported byBy Mihir ZaveriIf art really does imitate life, it may be best in certain instances to make clear which is taking place.That idea was reflected in a post the Los Angeles County Sheriff’s Department shared on Facebook on Friday night.The department’s San Dimas station got a call on Wednesday about a possible kidnapping along Highway 39 in the San Gabriel Mountains, according to the Sheriff’s Department.The caller said he saw two people pointing a gun at another person whose hands were duct taped near a black BMW sedan.It was a call that deputies took seriously, Sgt. Michael McGrattan of the Sheriff’s Department said in an interview Friday night.“Typically on a call like that, we would send multiple deputies,” he said. “That’s actually a remote location up in the mountains. Up in the mountains there, we actually from time to time, we have bodies dumped, we have had shootings, we have had murders.”Deputies proceeded with caution, he said, and conducted what the agency called a “high-risk” traffic stop on the car.They found three men, and detained them, according to the Facebook post.Deputy Ed Luna said in an interview on Friday night that all three men were interviewed separately, and that their stories matched.But it was not a kidnapping — at least not a real one.“It turns out they were filming a music video,” Sergeant McGrattan said. “They were enacting a kidnapping, so to speak.”But they had a real gun, he said. One of the men was charged with a misdemeanor for openly carrying an unloaded firearm in a vehicle, he said.In its Facebook post, the department offered some practical advice: If anyone is filming a music video in the mountains, do not pretend to kidnap and duct tape someone and use a real gun.At least not without telling the authorities.AdvertisementSupported byAn obscure New York City gun case could tempt the justices to make broad pronouncements about a right they haven’t addressed in a decade.By The Editorial BoardThe editorial board represents the opinions of the board, its editor and the publisher. It is separate from the newsroom and the Op-Ed section.Is there a more enigmatic and oddly phrased passage in the Constitution than the Second Amendment?“A well-regulated militia” — there’s no consensus on what this meant 200 years ago, much less now — “being necessary to the security of a free state” — were the framers talking about collective defense or self-defense? — “the right of the people to keep and bear arms” — bear arms like a soldier? — “shall not be infringed.”Yet, despite serious questions about the breadth of the amendment’s protections, at least four Supreme Court justices seem ready to consider what had until recently been a maximalist position: that it guarantees Americans a broadly unrestricted right to gun ownership.For 217 years, the opacity of the Second Amendment kept the Supreme Court from affirming that its text gave Americans as individuals, not as militia members, the right to have a gun. Former Chief Justice Warren Burger called that claim “one of the greatest pieces of fraud … on the American public by special-interest groups that I have ever seen in my lifetime.” The con seemed to have worked. In 2008 and then in 2010, the court ruled that, within certain limits, the government could not prohibit people from having handguns in their homes for self-protection, declaring that the amendment guaranteed that right for Americans as individuals. Since then, many on the right, including some justices, have been frustrated that the court has repeatedly refused to go further in expanding Second Amendment rights or at least clarifying the legal standard for assessing new gun control measures.In dissenting from the court’s refusal to review a lower-court ruling that permitted an Illinois city’s ban on semiautomatic firearms and high-capacity magazines, Justice Clarence Thomas wrote in December 2015 that the justices were “relegating the Second Amendment to a second-class right.”The arrival of Justice Brett Kavanaugh last year may have shifted the balance on the court in Justice Thomas’s favor. Replacing Justice Anthony Kennedy, who was more willing to accept limits on gun rights, and who may have played a role in moderating Justice Antonin Scalia’s 2008 decision in District of Columbia v. Heller, Justice Kavanaugh joins other justices who have expressed absolutist views on the Second Amendment — Justice Thomas, Justice Neil Gorsuch and Justice Samuel Alito Jr. In 2011, then-Judge Kavanaugh, serving on an appellate court, wrote a dissent in a follow-up case to Heller that signals his views. That ruling upheld a ban by Washington, D.C., on semiautomatic rifles and a separate gun registration requirement — in Judge Kavanaugh’s view, those provisions were unconstitutional and should not have been enforced.Last week the court agreed to hear a case from New York City that would, for the first time in a decade, allow the justices to decide whether the right to bear arms is, as Justice Thomas complained last year, a “constitutional orphan.”On the surface, the case, which the justices will hear in the session that begins in October, seems inconsequential. Three New Yorkers, backed by gun rights groups, are challenging an administrative rule that permits people with a license for a gun on a particular premise, like the owner’s home, to take it only to one of the seven shooting ranges in the city. That means no trips to shooting ranges or vacation homes upstate or across the Hudson to New Jersey. The city told the justices that the rule, which predates the Supreme Court’s Heller decision, was needed because authorities had received reports that licensed gun owners were abusing their privileges — traveling beyond city limits or designated shooting ranges, sometimes with loaded firearms, posing a risk to public safety. Could the Supreme Court’s conservative bloc use the case to declare that a gun owner has a constitutional right to carry a handgun anywhere outside the home, sensible limits be damned? Chief Justice John Roberts Jr. has, at times, played the role of centrist, and he may turn out to be a moderating force in keeping that from happening.AdvertisementSupported byBy Matt StevensA white man who shot three young black men who had been trying to evacuate in the aftermath of Hurricane Katrina died just days after being sentenced to 10 years in prison for the crimes, the authorities said Wednesday.The man, Roland J. Bourgeois Jr., 56, died Feb. 19 — five days after his sentencing — at a jail in Louisiana while he was in the custody of the United States Marshals Service, Walter Martin, a supervisory deputy, said. Mr. Bourgeois had been awaiting a transfer to a federal prison.The Plaquemines Parish Sheriff’s Office is handling the death investigation, Mr. Martin added. The cause of death was not immediately clear, but Mr. Martin said the authorities did not suspect foul play.Federal prosecutors had cited Mr. Bourgeois’s physical and mental health as one reason his court proceedings dragged on for nearly nine years after he was initially indicted. During that time, Mr. Bourgeois was repeatedly found incompetent to stand trial. He was eventually declared competent in 2018.Shortly after the hurricane ravaged New Orleans in 2005, Mr. Bourgeois fired a shotgun at the three men because they were black and had entered the neighborhood in which he lived, the United States attorney’s office for the Eastern District of Louisiana had said. The men, who were all injured in the shooting, had been trying to reach a ferry landing that state and federal agencies were using as an evacuation site.In 2010, federal prosecutors charged Mr. Bourgeois with five felony counts, and the maximum penalty was life in prison. Prosecutors later dismissed the original indictment as part of a plea agreement, and in October, Mr. Bourgeois pleaded guilty to two counts: interference with the rights of the men he targeted and use of a firearm during a violent crime.On Feb. 14, he was sentenced to five years in prison on each of the two counts. He was also sentenced to five years of supervised release.Julia Jacobs contributed reporting.AdvertisementSupported byBy ReutersLOS ANGELES — A Los Angeles man pleaded innocent on Thursday to killing Grammy-nominated rapper Nipsey Hussle and was ordered held on $5 million bail.Eric Ronald Holder, who was arrested earlier this week in connection with the fatal shooting, entered his pleas to murder and attempted murder charges through his attorney during a brief hearing in Los Angeles Superior Court.Holder, who was formally charged earlier in the day, appeared in court behind bars in a holding cell and spoke only to acknowledge his rights.The 29-year-old defendant was represented in the high-profile case by Chris Darden, who as a Los Angeles County deputy district attorney in the 1990s unsuccessfully prosecuted former football star O.J. Simpson for murder.Darden asked Los Angeles Superior Court Judge Teresa Sullivan to ban cameras from the courtroom, a request she denied. Darden declined to speak to reporters as he left the courtroom.Hussle, whose real name was Ermias Asghedom, was shot multiple times on March 31 outside his Marathon Clothing store in south Los Angeles. Two other people were wounded in the gunfire.PERSONAL DISPUTEHolder was taken into custody on Tuesday in the Los Angeles suburb of Bellflower after a tipster called to report seeing the man police had named as a suspect. Investigators have said that the slaying was motivated by a personal dispute between the two men, but have declined to elaborate. Holder faces a maximum sentence of life in prison without the possibility of parole if convicted at trial. A woman who drove Holder away from the scene has not been arrested or charged in the case. The Los Angeles Times reported on Thursday that Holder was an aspiring rapper and suspected gang member who went by the nickname "Fly Mac". He has a previous conviction for carrying a loaded firearm.On Monday, a disturbance erupted at a vigil for Hussle, setting off a stampede that critically injured two people. Hussle's debut studio album, "Victory Lap," was nominated for Best Rap Album at this year's Grammy Awards and his death prompted tributes on social media. The rapper, who was of Eritrean descent and grew up in south Los Angeles, has said that he once belonged to a street gang. More recently he had parlayed his fame into a role as a community organizer and activist. AdvertisementSupported byBy Amy QinBEIJING — A man wielding a knife killed two students and injured two others at an elementary school in central China on Wednesday, according to the local authorities.The attack occurred early Wednesday morning at Baijiaping Township Wanquan Elementary School in Ningyuan County, Hunan Province. A brief statement issued by Ningyuan County on its official WeChat social media account said that the two injured students had been taken to a hospital. Reached by telephone, an official surnamed Feng at the public security bureau of Ningyuan County said the injured students were in stable condition but declined to offer more details.The statement said that the suspect, a 31-year-old man surnamed Zheng, had been taken into police custody. Officials offered no details on the motivation behind the attack. The incident is still under investigation.Videos circulating online showed a large crowd of anxious adults carrying umbrellas gathered outside the school gates.Gun violence is rare in China, where ownership of firearms is strictly regulated. But Wednesday’s violence was the latest in a string of knife attacks on Chinese schools in recent years, adding to persistent concerns among parents about school safety.In the last year, knife attacks have occurred at schools in Shaanxi Province, in Shanghai and in the southwestern Chinese city of Chongqing. In January, a man attacked and injured 20 children with a hammer at an elementary school in Beijing.This week, the police in Henan Province said they had detained a kindergarten teacher on suspicion of poisoning 23 children.The frequency of school attacks has shown few signs of abating despite the fact that perpetrators of such crimes in China are often dealt severe punishment, including the death penalty.Experts have said the spate of school attacks can be attributed in part to a lack of high-quality mental health care in China and growing frustrations about social inequality and injustice. Some have pointed to a series of deadly stabbings of children in 2010 as the inspiration for later copycat attacks.Some users on Sina Weibo, a Chinese social media platform similar to Twitter, reacted to the news of the attack in Hunan on Wednesday by calling for the death penalty for the attacker. Others expressed disappointment that after so many years, the problem of school attacks had not yet been resolved.“When I was in elementary school, there were many attacks like this,” one user said. “Schools organized drills and hired many security guards with anti-riot gear to guard the gates.”“It’s hard to believe that now I’m about to graduate from college and humans are still doing the same thing, even though the era has changed,” the user added.International video coverage from The New York Times.Paul Manafort’s Trail of ScandalsMy Dead Dad’s Porno TapesTen Meter TowerBetween Sound and SilenceCoal Miner to Trump: “Coal Mining Isn’t Coming Back”House Tour | Cary LeibowitzSanctuary City HotlineAdvertisementSupported byBy The Associated PressWACO, Texas — No one will be convicted or otherwise held accountable for the 2015 shootout between rival biker gangs in Waco restaurant parking lot that left nine people dead and at least 20 injured, prosecutors in Central Texas said Tuesday.In a statement announcing all charges will be dropped in the deadliest biker shooting in U.S. history, McLennan County District Attorney Barry Johnson said any further effort to prosecute the case would be a "waste of time, effort and resources.""In my opinion, had this action been taken in a timely manner, it would have, and should have, resulted in numerous convictions and prison sentences against many of those who participated in the Twin Peaks brawl," Johnson said. "Over the next three years the prior district attorney failed to take that action, for reasons that I do not know to this day."The shooting outside a Twin Peaks restaurant in Waco on May 17, 2015, involved rival biker gangs, the Bandidos and Cossacks, and occurred as bikers from various groups were gathering to talk over matters of concern. Fights and gunfire broke out. Waco police officers monitoring the gathering also fired on the bikers, killing at least two.Surveillance footage showed many bikers running from the scene and ducking for cover after gunshots rang out. A smaller number could be seen pointing and firing weapons, slinging a chain or participating in fistfights. Law enforcement officers recovered dozens of firearms, knives and other weapons from the restaurant and adjacent parking lot, many of which officers organized indiscriminately into piles on the pavement and in the back of a police vehicle, dash-cam video showed. Law enforcement officials took the extraordinary step of arresting 177 bikers after the shooting, then charged 155 of them with engaging in organized criminal activity. Many were held on a $1 million bond.Former District Attorney Abel Reyna ultimately dropped charges against all but 24 and re-indicted them on riot charges. Those were the cases that came to an end Tuesday.Only one case was prosecuted in court and that ended in a mistrial. More than 100 bikers have filed civil rights lawsuits alleging McLennan County, the city and others violated the plaintiffs' civil rights by arresting them without probable cause after the shooting,AdvertisementSupported byBy The Associated PressEL PASO, Texas — The latest on Beto O'Rourke official presidential campaign kickoff in Texas (all times local):6:10 p.m.Beto O'Rourke has evoked a school shooting last year near Houston to call for banning assault weapons and points to that city's 2017 devastation during Hurricane Harvey to push for fighting climate change.The former Democratic congressman is formally launching his presidential campaign with Saturday rallies across Texas. He began in his native El Paso, then visited Houston's historically black Texas Southern University and is holding a late-night Austin event.Wearing a Texas Southern cap, O'Rourke recalled the deadly shooting at Santa Fe High School last May. He advocated for universal background checks for firearms purchases.O'Rourke also said he wanted to ensure that weapons "sold to the United States military with the sole purpose of killing people" are confined to the battlefield.He said Harvey meant Houston understands the perils climate change "better than just about anyone."___12:30 p.m.Democratic presidential candidate Beto O'Rourke has told 1,000-plus supporters near the Texas-Mexico border that immigrants make the country stronger.Formally kicking off his campaign in his hometown of El Paso on Saturday, O'Rourke offered support for unapologetically liberal positions, including backing federal legalization of marijuana. He promised to strengthen unions nationwide, make it easier to register to vote and end U.S. wars in Iraq and Afghanistan.The former congressman again vowed to work with Republicans, saying that a unified campaign will help him win his party's 2020 nomination and "defeat Donald Trump."President Donald Trump has threatened to shutter the U.S.-Mexico border to combat a rise in the number of immigrants crossing.Speaking mere blocks from the border, O'Rourke said, "We have learned not to fear our differences but to respect and embrace them."____5:30 a.m.Beto O'Rourke is formally kicking off his presidential campaign with three rallies across his home state, where he came close enough to upsetting Sen. Ted Cruz to generate the national buzz now buoying his 2020 White House bid.The Democratic ex-congressman is holding a Saturday morning rally mere blocks from the U.S.-Mexico border in his native El Paso, then traveling to historically black Texas Southern University in Houston before an evening event in the shadow of Austin's state Capitol.AdvertisementSupported byBy Richard FaussetAn Alabama police officer will not be criminally charged for killing a young black man whom he had mistaken for the gunman in a shopping-mall shooting Thanksgiving night, the state attorney general’s office said Tuesday. The decision is likely to extend the debate over a tragedy at the intersection of gun rights and concerns over racial biases in policing.The shooting death of Emantic F. Bradford Jr., 21, at the Riverchase Galleria mall in Hoover, Ala., prompted protests and raised questions about whether police officers are too quick to assume that a nonwhite person who is armed is a wrongdoer.In a 24-page report, Attorney General Steve Marshall concluded that the Hoover police officer — identified only as Officer 1 — who shot Mr. Bradford had “reasonably exercised” his duties.“Officer 1’s actions were reasonable under the circumstances and were consistent with his training and nationally accepted standards for ‘active shooter’ scenarios,” the report stated.[Read what 10 black gun owners told us about their interactions with law enforcement, other authorities and the general public.]The police officer shot Mr. Bradford, who went by E.J., a few seconds after gunshots rang out at the mall on Nov. 22, sending shoppers racing for safety and leaving an 18-year-old man, Brian Wilson, injured by two bullets.The officer, who was on duty at the mall, said in a statement that he had turned toward the sound of the gunfire with his weapon drawn, and saw an injured man clutching his stomach near a railing, with another man helping him. He said he also saw “an armed suspect” who was “quickly moving towards the two males standing near the railing.”“The suspect was advancing on the two males and had a black handgun in his right hand,” the officer said. “I fired my duty weapon at the armed suspect to stop him.” That man was Mr. Bradford.The officer said he thought Mr. Bradford was going to kill the two men, and the report said the officer had “mistakenly believed” Mr. Bradford had fired the initial shots.The officer said he was unable to issue verbal commands before firing, “due to the quickness of the event and the immediate threat Bradford posed” to the two men he was approaching.The police later arrested another man — Erron Martez Dequan Brown, 20 — and charged him with attempted murder in connection with the shooting of Mr. Wilson, the injured man by the railing.The attorney general’s report said there was no evidence that Mr. Bradford’s handgun was fired at the mall.The report said the F.B.I. had found no evidence to prompt an investigation into whether Mr. Bradford’s civil rights had been violated, a basis for federal prosecutions in cases that are otherwise under state jurisdiction. An F.B.I. spokeswoman declined to comment on the matter Tuesday.The decision not to bring charges did little to quell the suspicions and anger of Mr. Bradford’s relatives and supporters. “I’m outraged,” his mother, April Pipkins, said in a telephone interview Tuesday. “In no way was justice served.”Some surveillance video images of the events at the mall were released on Tuesday. But Benjamin L. Crump, a lawyer for the family, said he believed there was additional footage that had not been released, and he demanded that the public be allowed to see it. In a prepared statement, he said that Mr. Bradford’s “only ‘crime’ was being black.”Ashlyn McMillan, a witness to the mall shootings, told The New York Times that she considered Mr. Bradford a hero, saying that he had directed frantic shoppers to safety and had warned her to get down and seek cover inside a store.A man named Roosevelt Poole filled in some of the night’s narrative blanks at a recent preliminary hearing in the case. According to the Alabama news website AL.com, Mr. Poole said that he and another man were with Mr. Brown, the suspected gunman, in front of the J.C. Penney store in the mall when Mr. Bradford, Mr. Wilson and about eight other people showed up.Soon, Mr. Poole said, Mr. Wilson was slapping and punching Mr. Brown, the website reported. Mr. Brown’s lawyers say that he shot Mr. Wilson in self-defense.The attorney general’s report said that video footage showed Mr. Brown and his friends running into the J.C. Penney store after the shots were fired. For his part, Mr. Bradford initially ran away from the store entrance after the shots, the report said, but then drew his weapon and chambered a round.“Bradford then charges back toward J.C. Penney, gun drawn,” the report states.Mr. Crump said in a telephone interview that he believed Mr. Bradford was in no way intending to engage in a shootout.The attorney general’s report concludes that the officer’s initial mistaken belief that Mr. Bradford had shot Mr. Wilson did not render the officer’s actions “unreasonable.”“First, a reasonable person could have assumed that the only person with a gun who was running toward the victim of a shooting that occurred just three seconds earlier fired the shots,” it said.The report also asserted that Mr. Bradford “still posed an immediate deadly threat to persons in the area. Video evidence suggests that Bradford, who was carrying a firearm, was running toward the initial shooter, Erron Brown, who was also carrying a firearm. Multiple shoppers were nearby, including a mother and child directly in between the two armed men.”AdvertisementSupported byOut ThereBy Dennis OverbyeThe president proposes and Congress disposes.So goes the standard description of the constitutional process by which our republic is governed. Judging from the news headlines, you might think this process has not been friendly lately to the scientific community. Again and again, the Trump administration has proposed drastic cuts to the research budgets of the Department of Energy, the National Science Foundation, NASA and other agencies.Quietly, however, Congress often has gone the other way and handed out increases. In February, the Congress passed, and President Trump finally signed, a spending bill for 2019, averting another government shutdown. Lost amid the collective sigh of relief and the hoopla about President Trump’s wall was the news that astronomers had won a key victory: A pair of cosmically ambitious telescopes were rescued from possible oblivion.One of them, the James Webb Space Telescope, NASA’s long-promised successor to the Hubble Space Telescope, was designed to peer deeper into space and time than any optical eyes before it, to study the earliest stars and galaxies of the cosmos. But as of last year, it was deep in the red.In the 1990s, the Webb telescope was expected to cost about $800 million. But the price kept growing, threatening to suck money from NASA’s other science programs. In 2011, Congress put a hard cap of $8 billion on its cost. Then an accident in 2018 at Northrop Grumman, the telescope’s main contractor, added another billion to the projected cost, putting the telescope or other NASA missions in danger of being trimmed or canceled.The other telescope, the Wide Field Infrared Survey Telescope, or Wfirst, was designed to search for exoplanets, investigate the mysterious “dark energy” apparently speeding up the expansion of the cosmos and, perhaps, elucidate the fate of the universe. But Wfirst has always lived in the Webb telescope’s political and budgetary shadow.Each time Webb was delayed or over budget, the dark-energy mission was pushed further into the uncertain future. Many astronomers feared that the Webb’s most recent cost overrun would come at the expense of Wfirst. Indeed, last year in its 2019 budget proposal, the Trump administration recommended that Wfirst be canceled outright.But in the new spending bill, Congress raised the cap on Webb by $800 million, making the project whole again, for now. And Congress endorsed the Wfirst mission, with a cap of $3.2 billion on its cost. That will make things tight, since the estimated cost of the telescope recently rose to $3.6 billion. But it beats cancellation.“The bipartisan support in Congress has kept the mission alive,” said David Spergel, an astrophysicist at Princeton and the Flatiron Institute in Manhattan, and co-chairman of the Wfirst science team, said in an email.A similar theme runs through the last couple of years. “Over the past two budget cycles, Congress has indeed rejected the Trump administration’s proposed topline budget cuts to federal agencies that fund science,” said Mitch Ambrose of the American Institute of Physics, which tracks federal spending on research.Consider the final 2019 budget: Mr. Trump proposed a 5 percent cut in NASA’s space science, but Congress made it an 11 percent increase, to $6.9 billion. The president wanted to cut the National Science Foundation budget by 4 percent, but Congress raised it by the same amount, to $8.1 billion.Never miss an eclipse, a meteor shower, a rocket launch or any other astronomical and space event that's out of this world.The Geological Survey saw an even more sizable transformation. The administration proposed cutting its budget by $250 million, or about 21 percent. That would have slashed support for Climate Science Centers, which study the regional effects of climate change, and for research on carbon sequestration. Congress rejected those cuts, allotting the climate centers $25 million, only a shade less than in recent years. The Geological Survey as a whole received a one percent raise, to $1.2 billion.Even the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, with its politically sensitive mission to study climate and weather, received a 3 percent increase, worth $16 million, to its $566 million budget for science for 2019. The Trump administration had proposed a 41 percent cut — a potentially devastating blow to the agency. By comparison, the president’s border wall would cost about $5.7 billion.“Though this administration has regrettably chosen to ignore the findings of its own scientists in regards to climate change, we as lawmakers have a responsibility to protect the public’s interest,” Representative Eddie Bernice Johnson, a Democrat from Texas, said in a recent meeting of the House Science Committee, which she now heads.Lamar Alexander, the Republican chairman of the Senate’s Appropriations Subcommittee on Energy and Water Development and Related Agencies, expressed the same sentiment last spring in a statement to his committee.“Over the last three years, Congress has developed quite a consensus on science and research,” he said, noting in particular its agreement on medical research and supercomputing. “I would tell President Trump and the Office of Management and Budget that science, research and innovation is what made America first, and I recommend that he add science research and innovation to his ‘America First’ agenda.”Not all is rosy in the realms of science policy. Since 1997, the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention has been discouraged from studying guns and violence by the so-called Dickey Amendment, which prohibits the C.D.C. from promoting gun control. Last year Congress affirmed that the C.D.C. could study the causes of gun violence, but provided no money for such research.In an email, Julie Eschelbach, spokeswoman for the agency said, “Although C.D.C. does not receive direct funding for firearm-related research, C.D.C. has and continues to support data collection activities and analyses to document the public health burden of firearm injuries in the U.S.”And 86 percent of Americans, a majority of both Democrats and Republicans, favor spending more money on science, according to a recent poll by Hart Research and Echelon Insights.Once upon a time — in Einstein’s day, for example — it might have been considered unseemly for scientists to step outside their laboratories and make their case to the public. Today, organizations such as the American Astronomical Society and the American Association for the Advancement of Science have programs that teach young scientists how to do just that.That work is unlikely ever to be finished. Mr. Trump on Monday began unveiling his 2020 budget, and the cycle of cuts, cancellation and rescue may repeat itself again. Indeed, his new budget proposes to cancel Wfirst as well as a pair of missions devoted to studying Earth’s climate, atmosphere and oceans.“Scientists are going to have to work hard to make new friends in Congress,” wrote Matt Mountain, former director of the Space Telescope Science Institute, which runs the Hubble and will run the Webb telescope, and president of the Association of Universities for Research in Astronomy, in an email.More practice in the art of the possible, Dr. Mountain said, “more stuff they never taught us at graduate school.”An earlier version of this article misstated the name of a federal government agency. It is the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, not Agency. The article also misstated the month in which a federal budget was passed and signed. It was February, not January.AdvertisementSupported byThe Parkland students became a force for gun control legislation and boosted the youth vote. Here’s how they changed America’s response to mass shootings. By Margaret Kramer and Jennifer HarlanOn Feb. 14, 2018, a former student slaughtered 17 people at Marjory Stoneman Douglas High School in Parkland, Fla. The next day, David Hogg, a student who survived the attack, expressed his frustration at the pattern of political inaction that seems to follow mass shootings in the United States. He was not surprised that there had been another school shooting, he said, and that fact alone “says so much about the current state that our country is in, and how much has to be done.”“We need to do something,” he said. In the course of the next year, students would change the way the nation handles mass shootings, spurring new gun legislation and school safety measures, and holding to account the adults they felt had failed them.Here’s a look at where they made those changes happen, and where they were disappointed. With Parkland, it was the students who set the agenda. Their openness about their pain made them formidable leaders of the movement for gun control, and their displays of strength and utter grief struck a chord with a nation numbed by repeated acts of violence.In the weeks after the shooting, busloads of Stoneman Douglas students took their case to the Florida capital and to Washington. With a rallying cry of “Never Again,” they gathered support from other young people and activists, and their March for Our Lives campaign spurred huge rallies and hundreds of protests, including a nationwide school walkout. The students’ pleas reached the White House, imploring President Trump to better protect schools and limit access to guns. And the movement brought youth activism to a new age — finding global power in social media and pushing public officials to acknowledge their accountability. [Read how the Parkland massacre has changed the lives of the survivors in their own words.]Three months after the massacre in Parkland, 10 people were killed in yet another school shooting, this one in Santa Fe, Tex., compounding the Stoneman Douglas students’ outrage and resolve, and placing them in a new role: consoling those who were suffering as they were. “Something about Parkland has been different,” said Melissa Strassner, a survivor of the Columbine school shooting in 1999. “They truly have inspired a nation.”Stoneman Douglas students and parents were outraged by what they viewed as gross incompetence on the part of school and law enforcement officials. Video showed that a sheriff’s deputy assigned to the school did not enter the building as the attack unfolded. Seven other deputies remained outside as gunshots rang out, a state commission found. And another officer prevented paramedics from entering.The school district also appeared to have missed several warning signs about the former student charged in the massacre, Nikolas Cruz. The parents of two 14-year-old students who were killed decided to run for the school board to fix what they thought went wrong. One of them won.And in January, Florida’s new Republican governor, Ron DeSantis, suspended Sheriff Scott Israel for his “neglect of duty” and “incompetence.” Mr. Israel, who is a Democrat and a vocal opponent of the National Rifle Association, continues to insist that the criticism of him is politically motivated and that “there was no wrongdoing on my part.” Multiple deputies have also been suspended, and one ultimately resigned.In the case of Mr. Cruz, the warning signs were many. There were the boasts about killing animals, the expulsion, the stalking of a female classmate, the repeated calls from his mother to the police. School counselors and a sheriff’s deputy decided at one point that he should be forcibly committed for psychiatric evaluation, only to apparently change their minds the next day. Multiple tips to the F.B.I. were left uninvestigated — one woman told the bureau’s tip line she was worried about Mr. Cruz going “into a school and just shooting the place up.” At that time, there was no law in Florida that would have prevented Mr. Cruz from buying a gun or would have allowed the police to take away his weapon. A gun control bill the state passed in March now allows law enforcement — with judicial approval — to bar a person deemed dangerous from owning guns for up to a year. Florida courts granted more than 1,000 such orders in the first nine months after the law took effect, according to The Associated Press. Eight other states have passed similar “red flag” laws in the last year, bringing the total with such laws to 14. Several more states are expected to take up measures in 2019.State legislatures, both Republican- and Democratic-controlled, passed 76 gun control laws in the past year  — from bans on bump stocks and caps on magazine sizes to new minimum-age requirements and expanded background checks. Among the victories for gun control advocates was an omnibus bill in Florida that raised the minimum age to purchase a firearm in the state to 21 and extended the waiting period to three days. In all, more than half the states passed at least one gun control measure in 2018, with Washington and New York joining the trend in 2019. At the same time, there were significantly fewer new state laws expanding gun rights in 2018 than the year before, according to an end-of-year report by the national advocacy group Giffords. Data provided by the N.R.A. also indicated that the number of enacted gun control measures outnumbered pro-gun measures for the first time in at least six years.But at the federal level, any momentum for change was quickly stymied by partisan gridlock. Republican leaders in Congress remained silent as their Democratic colleagues called, once again, for changes in the wake of a mass shooting. The White House flip-flopped on promises to raise the minimum age to purchase rifles and to enforce universal background checks. And the N.R.A. pressed lawmakers, including the president, to give priority to the interests of gun owners.[Nearly 1,200 children have been killed by gun violence since the shooting in Parkland. Read how teenage journalists told their stories.]In the end, the only significant national change was a ban on bump stocks — which members of both parties had been calling for since the Las Vegas shooting in October 2017. The House of Representatives, where Democrats took power in January, has now made gun safety a priority, and the Judiciary Committee passed two gun-control bills on Wednesday that would strengthen background checks and close a loophole that allowed Dylann S. Roof to buy a gun that he used in the Charleston church massacre in 2015. But with a Republican Senate and president, the chances of either measure moving beyond the House are virtually nil.In the days after Parkland, a flood of threats and false alarms heightened the focus on school security nationwide. Schools have turned to an array of measures: hiring armed guards, requiring students to carry clear backpacks, arming teachers with baseball bats. Some campuses have added more cameras and metal detectors or hired companies to monitor students’ social media for potential threats — all of which has created a lucrative market for school security.The president voiced support in the days after Parkland for arming teachers with guns as a way to prevent further massacres. It was an early indicator of the tack that he and congressional Republicans would take in addressing the shooting. In March, Mr. Trump announced the creation of a federal commission to examine school safety proposals, including raising the minimum age for buying certain firearms. But two months later, Education Secretary Betsy DeVos informed a Senate committee that the commission would not look at the role guns play in school violence. Its final report played down the role of guns, and advised schools to improve mental health services and train school personnel to use firearms.When it became clear that Congress would not act on guns, the Parkland students turned their attention to rallying young voters and increasing turnout in the midterm elections in November.Madison Leal, a student at Stoneman Douglas, said in March about politicians who would not take action: “I’m going to vote them out of office. And so is my entire generation. And they’ll be sorry then.” In the summer, a busload of students traveled the country on a Road to Change tour aimed at registering young voters. In tandem with various voter groups and celebrities promoting registration, the Parkland students helped spike record numbers for young voter registration, registering thousands of voters at their rallies. The March for Our Lives campaign reported a 10 percent increase in youth turnout in 2018, compared with the previous midterm elections in 2014.AdvertisementSupported byBy The Associated PressLAWRENCE, Kan. — Criminal charges against a former police officer in Kansas who shot a man last year were dismissed Wednesday after a judge ruled the officer meant to use her Taser and mistakenly drew her gun during the confrontation.Ex-Lawrence officer Brindley Blood, 36, was charged with aggravated battery after she shot 35-year-old Lawrence resident Akira Lewis while he was attacking another officer in May 2018.Douglas County District Court Judge Peggy Kittel ruled that evidence did not show Blood acted recklessly during the confrontation. The case was dismissed without prejudice, meaning it could be refiled, the Lawrence Journal World reported .After the hearing, Douglas County District Attorney Charles Branson said he did not intend to refile the charges but would review the ruling to determine whether an appeal of the dismissal should be filed.Lewis, who is black, was treated at a hospital after being shot and has said he has permanent injuries. He contends he was racially profiled. Blood and the other officer are both white.Lewis was charged with battery against a law enforcement officer, interference with law enforcement and driving without proof of insurance, all misdemeanors, and failure to wear a seat belt.A video of the confrontation shows Blood, who was a rookie police officer, yelling "Taser" before firing. She told investigators that she meant to use her Taser but mistakenly drew her gun and shot Lewis.Kittel said she did not believe Blood acted recklessly after reviewing the evidence, hearing testimony from Lewis and several officers, and watching the video ."There is no evidence that the defendant consciously disregarded a substantial and unjustifiable risk," Kittel said. "She meant to use her Taser."Branson contended that despite "extensive training" on Tasers and firearms, Blood was reckless because she showed "gross deviation" from standards for such situations.Blood's attorneys, Tom Bath and Michael Riling, argued their client may have made a mistake but she wasn't reckless, particularly given the few seconds she had to act.The confrontation began when Officer Ian McCann pulled Lewis over for not wearing a seat belt during a scheduled seat belt enforcement campaign. The video shows Lewis becoming belligerent, cursing and refusing to get out of his vehicle or provide identification.Blood arrived after McCann called for backup. Lewis eventually jumped out of his SUV, and is seen on the video hitting McCann and slamming him to the ground. Blood drew her gun, stood over the two men, yelled "Taser-Taser-Taser" and fired once.After Lewis cried out in pain, Blood can be heard on the video saying, "Oh, (expletive), I shot him."Lewis' attorney, Shaye Downing, has said that the officers "initiated physical contact and escalated a situation that could have been easily de-escalated by any number of interventions."Blood, who graduated from the police academy just six months before the shooting, resigned from the department in late January.AdvertisementSupported byBy Tiffany HsuGun control activists have spent years trying to limit the number of assault-style firearms available to civilians: holding rallies, drafting proposed laws and backing campaigns by shareholders of publicly traded gun makers.Now, one advocacy group is focusing on a different pressure point: the consumer banks that provide loans and other financial support to the gun industry.The group, Guns Down America, which formed in 2016 after a mass shooting in Orlando, Fla., has created a ranking system that gives 15 banks letter grades based primarily on their ties to firearms makers and trade groups like the National Rifle Association.Six of the banks, including JPMorgan Chase and Wells Fargo, received failing grades. Citigroup earned the highest one, a B.Igor Volsky, Guns Down America’s founder and executive director, said he hoped the grading system would compel banks to be more publicly supportive of gun control measures, in the same way that many companies have taken positions on gay rights, immigration and other social issues.Part of the mission, he added, is stopping “the Wild Wild West of how gun manufacturers both produce military-style weapons and also how they can market those firearms.”“We’re not interested in shaming banks or running a campaign focused on how evil they are,” Mr. Volsky said. “Our end goal is to change the way banks make decisions when doing business with the gun industry.”The group used a 100-point scale that applied different weights to factors like a bank’s loans to and investments in gun makers; its public statements about gun safety; its support for lawmakers backed by the N.R.A.; and the discounts and deals it offers to N.R.A. members.The basis for the grades was publicly available information gathered from media reports, regulatory documents, campaign finance filings and other sources. Any undisclosed updates to gun-related deals, legal complications that might affect those arrangements and internal discussions were not reflected.Guns Down America said it had shared its methodology and individual grades with all 15 banks and was involved in continuing talks with some of them, but several banks contacted for comment said that they had not been consulted and that the group had relied on arbitrary metrics.In the last year, gun safety groups have begun looking more closely at the firearms industry’s corporate ties, with the scrutiny leading some businesses to make changes.After a mass shooting in Parkland, Fla., Delta Air Lines, Hertz and several other companies broke with the N.R.A., and retailers like Dick’s Sporting Goods made some guns harder to buy. Influential Wall Street figures like Laurence D. Fink, the chief executive of BlackRock, publicly embraced gun safety efforts.In March, estimated firearm sales in the United States slipped 12.6 percent from a year earlier, to nearly 1.4 million units, according to the research firm Small Arms Analytics & Forecasting.The financial industry’s connections to gun makers have drawn attention before. In December, The New York Times reported that many of the mass shootings in the last decade had been financed with credit cards.[Read out how banks unwittingly provide financing for mass shootings.]Some banks have already started to revise their policies and practices on firearms. Citigroup, which earned a score of 84 from Guns Down America, said in March 2018 that it would work only with clients that agreed to certain restrictions on firearm sales.A short time later, Bank of America said it would stop lending to companies that made military-inspired firearms for civilian use. It was subsequently criticized for its commitment to contribute $43.2 million in bankruptcy financing for Remington.Bank of America, which did not respond to a request for comment, got a C from Guns Down America.The six banks that received failing grades all had more than $200 million in recent financial arrangements with gun companies, according to Guns Down America.The group gave JPMorgan Chase a 48, finding that it had contributed $21,000 to politicians strongly supported by the N.R.A., and had a $273 million financing arrangement with Vista Outdoor. Guns Down America did not specify whether the money was directed only to Vista’s gun business, which the company had said it plans to sell.Marianne Lake, JPMorgan’s chief financial officer, said last year that the bank’s links to military-style firearms “have come down significantly and are pretty limited.” JPMorgan declined to comment on the Guns Down America grade.BB&T was last on the Guns Down America list. Its score of 20 was partly a result of its arranging $147 million in loans to the industry from 2012 to 2016 and partly a result of its recent involvement in a $78 million revolving credit line for Smith & Wesson, according to the gun control group.Brian Davis, a spokesman for BB&T, said the bank was “deeply concerned with the increasing amount of gun violence in our schools and communities,” and listened to “a wide range of opinions” on gun control. He said the bank did not comment publicly about its financial relationships.Guns Down America found that Wells Fargo, which fared slightly better at 25 points, had extended $471 million in loans and credit to gun makers since 2012, including a $40 million loan to Sturm Ruger last year. The N.R.A. also uses Wells Fargo, and the bank donated $92,000 to a group of lawmakers supported by the trade group, Guns Down America said.Trisha Schultz, a Wells Fargo spokeswoman, said in a statement that the bank planned to invest more than $10 million over three years in studying gun-violence prevention and in improving school safety. The bank, she said, has “a small and declining relationship with the N.R.A.”But Ms. Schultz added that “changes to gun laws and regulations should be determined through a legislative process that gives the American public an opportunity to participate and not be arbitrarily set by a bank.”“We do not believe that the American public wants banks to decide which legal products consumers can and cannot buy,” she said.Because of an editing error an earlier version of this article misidentified whose links to military-style firearms “have come down significantly and are pretty limited,” according to Marianne Lake, JPMorgan’s chief financial officer. Ms. Lake was referring to the bank’s links to such firearms, not Vista Outdoor’s links.Follow Tiffany Hsu on Twitter: @tiffkhsu.Paul Manafort’s Trail of ScandalsMy Dead Dad’s Porno TapesTen Meter TowerBetween Sound and SilenceCoal Miner to Trump: “Coal Mining Isn’t Coming Back”House Tour | Cary LeibowitzSanctuary City HotlineAdvertisementSupported byBy Adam LiptakWASHINGTON — The Supreme Court on Thursday refused to block a Trump administration initiative banning bump stocks, the attachments that enable semiautomatic rifles to fire in sustained, rapid bursts.The court’s action, in a one-sentence order, means that the regulation will remain in force while challenges to it move forward in the courts. There were no noted dissents.The case concerns executive power, not the Second Amendment. The lead plaintiff, Gun Owners of America, which describes itself as “the ‘no compromise’ gun lobby,” argued that the administration had exceeded its authority by banning bump stocks under federal laws that largely ban machine guns. (The National Rifle Association was not a party to the suit.)Bump stocks work by harnessing a firearm’s recoil energy to allow it to keep firing after a single pull of the trigger. The Justice Department has said this transforms semiautomatic weapons into fully automatic machine guns.The regulation, which went into effect on Tuesday, bans the sale or possession of bump stocks, which were used by a gunman to massacre 58 people and wound hundreds of others at a Las Vegas concert in October 2017.Under the regulation, Americans who own bump stocks have 90 days to destroy their devices or to turn them in to the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives.In instructions posted on its website, the bureau suggested “crushing, melting or shredding” as acceptable methods of destruction.Michael E. Hammond, a lawyer with Gun Owners of America, said the group “wouldn’t advocate that anyone violate the law.” But he added that the regulation may be hard to enforce.“My guess, from the states that have enacted bump stock bans, is that most of the 500,000 people that have bump stocks are not going to turn them in, if history is any indication,” Mr. Hammond said.The Justice Department initially decided that the executive branch did not have the authority to ban bump stocks without congressional action. It later changed course, determining it could ban the devices on its own.“Bump stocks” are attachments that enable semiautomatic rifles to fire faster, almost like machine guns. Twelve of the rifles found in the hotel room of the Las Vegas gunman were fitted with the devices.Gun owners challenged the regulation in a federal trial court in Michigan, saying that federal law did not allow the executive branch’s action. They added that the regulation would require the destruction of devices worth more than $100 million.Judge Paul L. Maloney, of the Federal District Court in Kalamazoo, Mich., last week refused to block the regulation. “Congress restricts access to machine guns because of the threat the weapons pose to public safety,” he wrote. “Restrictions on bump stocks advance the same interest. All of the public is at risk, including the smaller number of bump stock owners.”On Monday, a three-judge panel of the United States Court of Appeals for the Sixth Circuit, in Cincinnati, rejected a request from the challengers for a stay of the regulation while an appeal from Judge Maloney’s decision moved forward.The panel acknowledged that the plaintiffs “will suffer irreparable harm.” But it said that “the public interest in safety supports denial of a stay pending appeal.”The plaintiffs then turned to the Supreme Court. “This case represents the single biggest A.T.F. seizure of private property in history,” their lawyers wrote, “made even more noxious because all existing bump stocks were manufactured and purchased in accordance with A.T.F. rulings approving their sale.”Solicitor General Noel J. Francisco, representing the administration, urged the justices to deny the stay in the case, Gun Owners of America v. Barr, No. 18A963.“The protection of the public and law enforcement officers from the proliferation of prohibited firearms is a bedrock foundation of federal firearms legislation,” he wrote, adding that the regulation “promotes that public interest by protecting the public from the dangers posed by machine guns prohibited by federal law.”The regulation has been challenged in other courts, too, but so far none of them have ruled for the plaintiffs. After a federal trial judge in Washington refused to enter a preliminary injunction, the United States Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit did issue a temporary stay of the regulation, but it applied only to the plaintiffs in the case before it.The challengers in that case, Guedes v. Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives, No. 18A964, asked the Supreme Court to intervene. “Hundreds of thousands of citizens,” they wrote, “will be required to surrender or destroy their property or face felony charges for possession of devices that were unquestionably legal under A.T.F.’s construction of the statute for the past 85 years and A.T.F.’s prior written rulings stating as much.”“No person,” their brief said, “should have to face the threat of felony prosecution and deprivation of their property due to the rushed and arbitrary time frame A.T.F. placed on these proceedings.”Chief Justice John G. Roberts Jr., noting that the appeals court had already imposed a partial stay, denied the application on Tuesday.Follow Adam Liptak on Twitter: @adamliptak.AdvertisementSupported byBy Matt StevensA Dallas man was sentenced to eight years in prison on Wednesday after the authorities caught him with a partially 3-D-printed rifle and what federal prosecutors described as a hit list of lawmakers in his backpack.The man, Eric Gerard McGinnis, had been under a court order that prohibited him from possessing a firearm when he was discovered to have had the partially printed AR-15-style rifle in July 2017, according to a statement from the United States attorney’s office for the Northern District of Texas.Mr. McGinnis, 43, was charged with possession of an unregistered firearm and possession of ammunition by a prohibited person, prosecutors said. A jury later convicted him on both counts.Prosecutors said in their statement that police officers had arrested Mr. McGinnis after hearing three shots he had apparently fired in a wooded area just outside Dallas. They also discovered a list in his backpack labeled “9/11/2001 list of American Terrorists.” The list included the office and home addresses of “several federal lawmakers, both Democrat and Republican,” the statement said.Prosecutors did not reveal the names on Mr. McGinnis’s list, but at the sentencing hearing on Wednesday they disclosed that a forensic analysis of his electronic devices suggested that Mr. McGinnis “had a strong interest” in James T. Hodgkinson, the man who the authorities say shot and wounded Representative Steve Scalise and several others at a congressional baseball practice in June 2017.“When he realized he couldn’t legally purchase a firearm, Eric McGinnis circumvented our gun laws by 3-D printing his weapon, eliminating the need for a background check,” United States Attorney Erin Nealy Cox said in the statement. “This case should send a message to prohibited persons contemplating acquiring guns by any method.”Late Wednesday, Juan G. Rodriguez, a lawyer for Mr. McGinnis, declined to comment on the sentencing.In August 2015, a judge enacted a protective order against Mr. McGinnis after what prosecutors said was “a violent altercation with a live-in girlfriend.” The order barred him from possessing firearms or ammunition for two years, but Mr. McGinnis tried to buy a semiautomatic rifle component at a federally licensed gun shop in June 2016, prosecutors said.The prospective purchase was rejected after a background check flagged the order, prosecutors said.So Mr. McGinnis decided instead to use a 3-D printer to create a gun’s “lower receiver” — its firing mechanism — and obtain other necessary parts like a barrel, stock, and grip through alternate means, prosecutors said. Once he had all the parts he needed, he assembled a short-barrel AR-15-style rifle, they said.Then, in July 2017, with about a month left on his protective order, Mr. McGinnis took the gun to the wooded area outside Dallas where Grand Prairie police officers, out on another call, heard three shots fired and eventually took him into custody, prosecutors said. Upon inspecting his backpack, they found the loaded gun and the hit list with the names and addresses of federal lawmakers, prosecutors said. At one point during his confrontation with the police, they said, Mr. McGinnis falsely claimed to work for the C.I.A.“I didn’t buy a gun, I built the gun,” Mr. McGinnis said in a recorded phone call to a family member, according to prosecutors. “I printed a lower, and I built it — installed the trigger and did all that stuff.”In Wednesday’s statement, Jeffrey C. Boshek II, a special agent with the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives, acknowledged that “the fact a prohibited person was able to manufacture an untraceable firearm with apparent ease and anonymity presents a significant challenge and major concern to law enforcement and our community.”But he also noted, “Controls to determine if an individual is prohibited from purchasing firearms and ammunition worked.”AdvertisementSupported byBy Damien Cave and Matt StevensThe shootings that killed at least 49 people at two mosques in New Zealand on Friday have placed new scrutiny on New Zealand’s gun laws and sparked a fervent debate about whether they were a factor in the gunman’s decision to carry out his attack there.The man was identified in court papers as Brenton Harrison Tarrant, 28, and officials have said he was an Australian citizen, which has led to comparisons between gun laws in Australia and in New Zealand.While New Zealand’s laws governing the purchase of semiautomatic rifles are more restrictive than those in the United States, the country is much freer with firearms than Australia is, allowing most guns to be purchased without requiring them to be tracked.“New Zealand is almost alone with the United States in not registering 96 percent of its firearms — and those are its most common firearms, the ones most used in crimes,” said Philip Alpers of GunPolicy.org, a clearinghouse for gun law data worldwide. “There are huge gaps in New Zealand law, even if some of its laws are strong.”New Zealand’s prime minister, Jacinda Ardern, said on Saturday that five firearms, including two semiautomatic weapons, were used in the attacks.“If he went to New Zealand to commit these crimes,” Mr. Alpers said, “one can assume that the ease of obtaining these firearms may have been a factor in his decision to commit the crime in Christchurch.”[Get the latest updates on the New Zealand terrorist attack here.]In the years since a gunman killed 35 people in Port Arthur, Tasmania, in 1996, Australia has embarked on one of the world’s most expansive efforts to rid a society of gun violence. Officials significantly strengthened gun laws, severely restricted semiautomatic weapons and engaged in a buyback program that took more than 650,000 firearms off the streets.The gun laws in New Zealand are more layered, and do not fit easily into a pro or anti-gun rubric.Semiautomatic rifles and handguns, for example, require special licenses; a person can only buy one semiautomatic weapon at a time. “The police will look very askance at you if you want four or five of them,” Mr. Alpers said. “It gets harder and harder if you want more and more.” Still, Mr. Alpers said, it is possible to obtain a large cache of weapons — either by acting alone or if more than one person is purchasing.As the law stands now, any person age 16 or older with an entry-level firearm license can keep any number of common rifles and shotguns without an official record of those guns being kept.Most of the guns in circulation can be sold on the internet or through ads in newspapers, and the most popular types of firearms can lawfully change hands in private homes or even hotel parking lots with no requirement that a record of the transaction be kept.Still, the country has generally been safe from gun massacres. Its last mass shooting, which left 13 people dead, was in 1990 — and it led to tighter rules around semiautomatic weapons.Police officers do not generally carry firearms and murders are rare; the death toll from Friday’s terrorist attack is roughly equivalent to the number of murders that occur in the country each year. The annual tally of gun homicides specifically is even lower.“New Zealanders are by and large safe users of firearms and that has led everybody to relax,” Mr. Alpers said. “It’s led New Zealanders to think they don’t have a problem.”[The gunman appeared to be steeped in the culture of the extreme-right internet.]At the same time, however, New Zealand’s gun culture is significant and deeply ingrained. Like the United States, Australia and Canada, New Zealand’s frontier history has led to a proliferation of guns used for sport, for protecting wide open spaces from animals, and for dealing with problems like wounded cattle.Of the 3.9 million New Zealanders of gun licensing age, 238,000 — 6 percent — have a firearm license, according to GunPolicy.org.“Our gun laws will change, now is the time,” Ms. Ardern said Saturday, though she did not say what that legislation would look like. “People will be seeking change, and I am committed to that.”Mr. Alpers predicted that lawmakers would work to make guns harder to obtain.“This will certainly change things in New Zealand,” he said. “I can’t think of a country that’s more likely to change its gun laws after something like this.”AdvertisementSupported byBy Jamie TarabayThey share a name, and both espouse a love of guns, but beyond that, the National Rifle Association in New Zealand has little in common with America’s most powerful gun advocacy group.The New Zealand organization, which has no formal connection to the N.R.A. in the United States, is the country’s governing body for the sport of long-range target shooting. It does not engage in the sort of political lobbying for which the American group has built such a fierce reputation.And that helps explain why the New Zealand group’s reaction to the massacre at two mosques in Christchurch last week has borne little resemblance to how the American N.R.A. has responded to recent mass shootings in the United States.On Thursday, six days after the Christchurch attacks, New Zealand’s prime minister, Jacinda Ardern, announced a national ban on military-style semiautomatic weapons, on parts that allow guns to be modified into such weapons, and on high-capacity ammunition magazines.In the United States, calls for far less sweeping gun restrictions have drawn immediate and overwhelming resistance from the N.R.A. In New Zealand, the local gun organization will not be among those pushing against the new bans.In fact, the sorts of military-style weapons being targeted are already unwelcome in the New Zealand organization.“N.R.A. N.Z. looks after long-range precision target shooting, up to 1,000 yards,” said the group’s chairman, Ross Mason. “There’s no service rifle or military rifle shooting within the discipline, as opposed to the N.R.A.” in the United States, “which looks after all the disciplines and seems to be the political arm of the organization as well.”The New Zealand organization has considered a name change to avoid being associated with the American group.Many Americans can buy a gun in less than an hour. In New Zealand, the process can take weeks or months.Perhaps the biggest difference between the United States and New Zealand when it comes to guns is the foundation of ownership in the first place, Mr. Mason said.“It is treated as a privilege to have a firearm here, as opposed to it being a right in America,” he said.In New Zealand, gun owners are subjected to rigorous background checks and requirements, though they are not required to register their weapons. In the United States, passing an instant background check is often all that is required for an adult to buy a firearm, although laws vary by state.Even after acquiring a license, gun owners in New Zealand continue to be subjected to scrutiny from the authorities, Mr. Mason said.“If your name comes up with a police or traffic complaint, that list gets looked at by the police firearms division,” he said. “If it looks like your name is coming up more often, they’ll come and have a word with you.”AdvertisementSupported byBy Serge F. KovaleskiA San Francisco software executive has donated more than $62,000 to try to ensure that the cache of firearms that was owned by the gunman in the Las Vegas massacre will be destroyed.In the aftermath of the 2017 shooting, loved ones of the 58 people who lost their lives in the rampage faced a difficult choice over what to do with the 50 guns and accessories that were owned by the gunman, Stephen Paddock. They could possibly sell the weapons to raise money or have the guns destroyed in a symbolic renunciation of violence.Now the families don’t have to worry about making that decision — the donor, who wishes to remain anonymous, has stepped in to cover the funds. His only condition is that the guns are destroyed.The collection of firearms and equipment was valued at $62,340 in a recent inventory of Mr. Paddock’s nearly $1.4 million estate by a court-appointed special administrator. As Mr. Paddock died without a will, his mother, under Nevada law, became the heir to his assets, which she agreed to give to the families of the dead victims last March.After reading a New York Times article about the families’ gun dilemma that was published earlier this month, the California businessman decided to write a check to the families for $62,500. He contacted a reporter at The Times so that he could get in touch with the lawyer for the special administrator of the estate.“It was tugging at my heart strings and it seemed like a horrific situation for the families to deal with this choice,” he said in an interview. “I wanted to alleviate some of the pain or at least not allow it to get worse.”The executive said that he wants the donation to be anonymous because the focus should be on the families.“No credit in the face of pain,” he said. “This was about heartbreak and wanting to help.”He said he made the donation conditional on the destruction of the firearms — which range from pistols to high-powered long arms — to ensure they do not end up back in circulation.“I think the families would feel better if the weapons are gone,” he said.Alice Denton, the lawyer for the special administrator of the estate, said the F.B.I., which is in possession of the firearms, had given a verbal commitment that it would destroy the weapons if it received a court order to do so. She said that she would seek such an order next month from the Las Vegas judge overseeing the estate case. In the meantime, no action to destroy the guns would be taken.A spokeswoman for the F.B.I.’s Las Vegas field office said the bureau was unable to comment.The executive — who said he favors stronger gun control but does not consider himself “an anti-gun activist” — said if it turns out that the F.B.I. will not destroy the firearms, he would try to find another way to have it done.Ms. Denton said that she received the check last week and was delighted about the donor’s generosity.“We are so grateful,” she said. “It shows the compassion that total strangers can have for victims of horrendous crimes, and that, in the face of such evil, there are good people.”Mynda Smith, whose sister was killed in the attack, said the donor’s gesture and his desire to see the guns destroyed would help relatives like her deal with their sorrow.“His desire to alleviate any more emotional pain for the families of the 58, and all survivors really, is what makes it a beautiful thing,” Ms. Smith said. “Closing this door in this way is the perfect gift for us.”Ms. Denton said the check has been deposited in her trust account and that it would be transferred to the estate once the guns are destroyed.Nearly half of the guns in question — 23 rifles and a revolver — were found in the gunman’s upper-floor room at the Mandalay Bay Resort and Casino, according to the estate inventory.It was from that perch at the hotel that he opened fire on an outdoor country music festival. Not only were dozens of people slaughtered, hundreds of others were injured in the worst mass shooting in modern American history.The rest of the gunman’s firearms were in his two Nevada homes. At his house in Mesquite, seven rifles, seven shotguns and five handguns were collected. The estate recently sold that property to an Oregon couple for $425,000.And two shotguns and five handguns were found at the gunman’s Reno home, which is still listed on the market for $374,900.Lawyers for some of the victims have said that distributing the money to only the loved ones of the dead meant that it could have a far greater impact on their lives than if the large number of people hurt in the attack were also beneficiaries.If the gunman’s estate were to be divided up equally, each of the 58 families would receive about $24,000 — with the firearms accounting for close to $1,100 per family. The estate also includes an investment property worth a little more than $90,000 and bank and brokerage accounts totaling $455,758.One family, who intends to sue the manufacturers of the guns used in the shooting, would like to see those weapons kept in tact rather than destroyed.Through a lawyer, the family of Carrie Parsons, who was killed in the attack, has reached out to Ms. Denton.“What we are saying is ‘Please don’t destroy these, they are evidence,” said one of the family’s lawyers, Rick Friedman, who added that he had not yet been able to identify those firearms.“Destroying guns he did not use, I have no problem with,” Mr. Friedman said.AdvertisementSupported byBy Nick Corasaniti[What you need to know to start the day: Get New York Today in your inbox.]It began as an operation targeting a cocaine ring in southern New Jersey. But after investigators listened to a wire tap, the case took on an unexpected focus: do-it-yourself firearms made from parts easily found online.The suspects in New Jersey are accused of trying to sell several homemade AR-15 assault-style rifles that are known as ghost guns because they cannot be tracked. The AR-15 rifle is a powerful weapon similar to the one used to kill 11 people last year at a Pittsburgh synagogue.On Monday, New Jersey law enforcement officials announced the arrests of four men who became the first defendants charged under a law passed last year that makes it illegal to buy, manufacture, possess or sell homemade guns in the state. California is the only other state that restricts such weapons, but New Jersey’s version is far more stringent, according to national gun control groups.In fact, one of the suspects is heard on a wiretap specifically citing New Jersey’s law and saying they had to move the weapon sales out of state.“Ghost guns are a real and dangerous menace,” Gurbir Grewal, the attorney general of New Jersey, said in a news conference in Camden where he discussed the case. “They offer criminals, convicted felons, terrorists, domestic abusers, people who we all agree shouldn’t access firearms, the ability to access them.”New Jersey already has some of the country’s toughest gun laws, but buying parts individually and assembling them at home — often with the help of online videos and instructions — could allow people with criminal records and others who would not pass background checks to obtain guns.Marketed to gun enthusiasts who enjoy building their own firearms, companies that sell kits are making it easier for guns to circulate illegally, law enforcement authorities and gun control advocates said.“You go to some of the websites, they offer you discounts if you buy a pack of five or a pack of 10,” said J. Adam Skaggs, the chief counsel and policy director at the Giffords Law Center to Prevent Gun Violence. “Now, you ask yourself, am I going to buy a discounted 10-pack of ghost guns because I want to build myself 10 guns to use at the range? Or am I going to buy a 10-pack if I’m a would-be trafficker who wants to start a little factory of my own and sell these at a markup to people who can’t pass a background check?”Across the country, there have been arrests involving ghost guns with the accused charged with violating other state and federal laws. In New York, a police sergeant was accused of selling ghost guns to members of a motorcycle gang who had criminal records.The difficulty of disrupting illegal ghost gun operations is underscored by the circuitous route that led authorities to the trafficking ring in New Jersey.The investigation began as a probe into a large cocaine ring in Lindenwold, a town in Camden County, Mr. Grewal said. Law enforcement authorities only became aware of the illegal gun trafficking through conversations between two of the alleged members of the criminal network that were secretly recorded.“They changed some law,” one suspect was recorded saying, “so we gotta go over to Philly to pick them up.”A second suspect said, “We just gotta go out of state now.’’The suspects would have parts for guns shipped across the Delaware River to Pennsylvania to get around the New Jersey law, and then would bring them back into the state, Mr. Grewal said.Law enforcement officials eventually recovered six AR-15 rifles made from parts without serial numbers, which were being offered on the black market for $1,100 to $1,300, nearly double the market price for an AR-15 assault-style rifle. They also intercepted parts for two more assault-style rifles that had been shipped to Pennsylvania.Another eight men were also arrested as part of the illicit operation and were charged mostly with drug-related offenses.Though these were the first arrests for trafficking ghost guns under the new law, Mr. Grewal said other ghost guns have turned up in the state. The State Police had recovered “well over 15 in the last year,’’ he said.“We are starting to see them at crime scenes,’’ he added. “We are starting to see them in our investigations. They are not an abstract threat. They are a real threat to public safety.”There are multiple investigations into ghost gun manufacturers and criminal networks, Mr. Grewal said. But, he added, responsibility also rests with manufacturers.“When you see repeatedly the same address and the same individuals at the same location continuing to order parts and parts and parts and parts for the same types of guns, some red flags have to go up,” Mr. Grewal said.Follow Nick Corasaniti on Twitter: @NYTnickc AdvertisementSupported byBy Richard A. Oppel Jr.The workplace shooting in a Chicago suburb last week that left five people dead exposed the failings of the system designed to keep guns away from convicted felons and others deemed too dangerous to handle firearms.Federal law bars gun ownership by felons, fugitives, drug abusers, people adjudicated to be mentally ill, those dishonorably discharged from the military or living in the country illegally, and by convicted domestic abusers or others subject to domestic violence restraining orders. But experts say the number of people who are barred from owning guns but have them anyway may reach into the millions.Still, only eight states have laws that provide an explicit mechanism so that people suspected of having guns in violation of those prohibitions are actually required to give them up. And some of those states merely allow — but do not require — the police to seek a court order to confiscate such guns.That was the case in Illinois, where the authorities knew for more than four years that Gary Martin was a violent felon but apparently did nothing to ensure that he surrendered the laser-sighted Smith & Wesson handgun that he used to kill five co-workers in Aurora, Ill., on Friday.The authorities say they are investigating how Mr. Martin slipped through the cracks of the Illinois law, which the police might have been able to use to confiscate his handgun years ago. And the Illinois State Police said they were reviewing why an initial background check failed to turn up a criminal conviction that should have blocked him from buying the gun to begin with.[Read more about the Aurora shooting here.]Across the nation, these problems keep coming to light: A man who killed 26 people at a Texas church in 2017 passed a background check to get a weapon despite a military conviction for domestic assault that should have barred him from having guns.A man who killed nine people at a South Carolina church in 2015 bought his gun after a background check failed to immediately reveal that he had admitted possessing a controlled substance.Last year, a man killed four people at a Waffle House restaurant in Tennessee using an assault weapon that he had been required to give up under the Illinois law just eight months before.Unlike Illinois, most states do not have an explicit process allowing the police a way to confiscate guns from people suspected of being prohibited owners. But even in those states that do, two factors explain why many police and sheriff’s departments use these laws so infrequently: time and danger.“That’s a challenging situation for law enforcement to knock on a door and say, ‘Hey, we’re here to take your guns, Mr. Dangerous Criminal,’” said Adam Skaggs, chief counsel of the Giffords Law Center to Prevent Gun Violence, which advocates tighter gun laws.Only a single state — California — has a database dedicated to tracking firearm owners who have lost their right to possess a gun, either because of a new criminal conviction or something else. The program, which was created in 2001 and went online five years later, was sponsored by the Republican leader in the State Senate and was approved with strong bipartisan support.Agents from the California Department of Justice work with local law enforcement officials to surveil and disarm people in the database believed to illegally own firearms.“They’re like little SWAT teams,” said Mark Leno, a former California state senator who sponsored a $24 million special appropriation in 2013 to hire 36 more state agents and reduce a backlog of suspected illegal gun owners.“It is very labor intensive to do this right, and there is always the risk that someone, especially if they are suffering from a serious mental illness, could become very frightened and might act out,” said Mr. Leno, a Democrat from San Francisco.Prompting state lawmakers to approve the funding were cases like that of Roy Perez, a mentally ill man who had been in the California database for three years when he shot and killed his mother, his neighbor, and his neighbor’s 4-year-old daughter in Baldwin Park in 2008. He was scheduled to have his gun confiscated when the killings occurred, but agents did not get to him in time.Since then, the program has shown results: In the past five years, California has cut by half, to about 10,000, the backlog of people in the database believed to own firearms illegally, even though nearly 41,000 names were added over that time. In 2017 alone, the program seized almost 4,000 guns.Thousands also obtain guns every year because of a loophole that allows gun dealers to sell firearms to people whose background checks have not been completed after three business days. In 2017, guns were sold to at least 4,864 people who were later flagged in the system after their background checks took longer than three days.Aside from California, only Connecticut and Nevada expressly require felons to provide proof to courts or to law enforcement that they have turned over guns after conviction, according to the Giffords Law Center. Illinois and four other states — Hawaii, Massachusetts, New York and Pennsylvania — also provide statutory mechanisms for felons to turn over illegally possessed weapons, though the procedures are not as stringent.But when Illinois lawmakers sought to tighten state law so that the police would be mandated to confiscate guns owned by people barred from possessing them, or at least verify that the guns had been transferred to legal owners, concerns about manpower helped doom the proposal.“Law enforcement didn’t object to the essence of the law,” but said they would need far more money to carry it out, said State Representative Kathleen Willis, a Democrat from suburban Chicago who is pushing to toughen the law.A handful of other states also require people convicted of domestic abuse or subject to restraining orders to give up weapons. Some states also allow a judge to temporarily take firearms from those deemed a threat to themselves or others.Strengthening — but not expanding — the existing background check system is one of the few gun-related issues that have had bipartisan support. Last year, Senator John Cornyn, Republican of Texas, sponsored a bill to make sure more records of felony and domestic abuse convictions were fed into the system.“For years agencies and states haven’t complied with the law, failing to upload these critical records without consequence,” Mr. Cornyn said before the bill became law. “Just one record that’s not properly reported can lead to tragedy.”In Mr. Martin’s case, he was issued a state firearm owner’s card in January 2014 — and five weeks later he passed a background check to buy his handgun — even though he had been convicted of aggravated assault for stabbing a former girlfriend with a knife and hitting her with a baseball bat in Mississippi in 1995.The Illinois State Police said Mr. Martin, who died in a shootout with officers on Friday, lied on his firearm owner’s card application about whether he had any felony convictions. They also indicated that the conviction only surfaced during a separate request for a concealed-carry permit a few months later because his fingerprints were submitted as part of that application.According to the State Police, 10,818 people had Illinois firearm owner’s cards revoked last year. But in most cases they failed — as Mr. Martin did in 2014 — to turn in required paperwork stating how they disposed of any weapons.And those numbers may represent only a fraction of the felons and others across the country who are barred from gun ownership but who possess them anyway.One in five gun purchases is estimated to occur with no background check, such as through sales over the internet or at gun shows, said Kris Brown, president of the Brady Center to Prevent Gun Violence. That attracts buyers who would fail a check.“You’d have to assume that if you are a prohibited purchaser, you are aware of that loophole, and that’s how you’re going to get a gun,” Ms. Brown said.While no one knows for sure how many of the country’s 20 million people with felony records illegally possess guns, by some estimates three in 10 of all American adults own firearms.Mr. Skaggs noted that Congress is now debating a proposal to eliminate loopholes allowing some purchases without a background check.A root cause of tragedies like Friday’s shooting, he added, is that people prohibited from owning firearms were able to obtain them to begin with.AdvertisementSupported byBy Catie EdmondsonWASHINGTON — The House this week is set to pass the first major gun control legislation in over two decades, with Democratic lawmakers expected to approve two measures strengthening background checks for all firearms sales.The last time the House put high-profile legislation expanding gun control laws to a vote was in 1994, when it passed the Federal Assault Weapons Ban and made it illegal to manufacture a number of semiautomatic weapons for civilian use. That legislation expired after a decade and was not renewed by a Republican-controlled Congress.But riding a new wave of urgency after a series of mass shootings — and the activism inspired by the school massacre in Parkland, Fla., last February in which 17 students and teachers were killed — House Democrats have pledged to take meaningful action on the issue, beginning with the twin bills.Here’s what you need to know about the measures and their odds in the Senate.The Bipartisan Background Checks Act, which the House will take up on Wednesday, requires universal background checks, closing a loophole for buyers at gun shows and online. The legislation, sponsored by Representative Mike Thompson, Democrat of California and the chairman of the House Gun Violence Prevention Task Force, also prohibits firearms transfers by a person who is not a licensed dealer. There are a number of exceptions, though, such as a family member giving a firearm as a gift, or lending a gun to someone in imminent danger.The second piece of legislation, the Enhanced Background Checks Act, will be voted on Thursday. Sponsored by Representative James E. Clyburn of South Carolina, the majority whip, the bill seeks to extend the initial background check review period to 10 days from three.Under federal law, the F.B.I. has three business days to perform its review and determine whether there is sufficient evidence to deny a purchase. If it is unable to do so, on the fourth day, the customer can return to the dealer and buy a gun. That loophole allowed Dylann S. Roof, the man who killed nine people at a historically black church in Charleston, S.C., in 2015, to purchase a .45-caliber handgun even though he had previously admitted to drug possession, which should have barred him from legally obtaining the weapon.A vast majority of guns used in 19 recent mass shootings — including those in Newtown, Conn.; San Bernardino, Calif.; and Las Vegas — were bought legally and after the gunman passed a federal background check. At least nine attackers had criminal histories or documented mental health problems that did not prevent them from obtaining their weapons.“The new gun control restrictions currently being considered by the Democratic majority in H.R. 8 would not have prevented my shooting,” Representative Steve Scalise of Louisiana, the Republican whip, said of the Bipartisan Background Checks Act. Mr. Scalise was gravely wounded in 2017 when a gunman fired on members of the Republican congressional baseball team while they were practicing in Virginia.But gun control advocates have praised the measures as a meaningful step toward change, and described the legislation as a necessary foundation for future work. Last year, the existing background check system identified and denied 88,000 gun sales to prohibited buyers including criminals and domestic abusers, according to Mr. Thompson’s office — but those same people are currently able to make purchases at gun shows or online.“We have fairly weak gun laws and we have loopholes that make it easy to have the levels of gun violence that we have right now, and we certainly have to do more to address it,” said Robin Lloyd, the managing director of the Giffords Law Center to Prevent Gun Violence. “But it is a critical first step.”The bills introduced by House Democrats closely mirror the last major attempt in the Senate to pass a gun control measure. Efforts led by Senator Patrick J. Toomey, Republican of Pennsylvania, and Senator Joe Manchin III, Democrat of West Virginia, to require background checks at gun shows and online failed in the Democratic-led Senate in 2013 and again in the Republican-led Senate in 2015.Otherwise, in the last two decades, most firearms legislation taken up by Congress has aimed to relax gun laws, such as attempts in the House and Senate to pass a concealed-carry reciprocity law allowing a person permitted to carry a concealed weapon in one state to carry it in every state.AdvertisementSupported byGovernments that want to curb gun violence frequently offer bounties for turning in weapons. New Zealand and Washington State are among the latest. But buybacks have a mixed record. By Adeel HassanWhen the New Zealand government announced on Thursday that it would ban military-style semiautomatic weapons and high-capacity ammunition magazines, a critical element of the new policy was a plan for the government to buy back the newly banned weapons from private owners.Gun buyback programs have often been mounted in American cities large and small that wanted to reduce gun violence and crime. Washington State just completed one on Monday specifically for bump stocks — accessory devices that make ordinary guns capable of very rapid fire. A federal ban on bump stocks takes effect on Tuesday.The state had set aside $150,000 for the buyback program, which gave Washington residents a $150 voucher for each bump stock they turned in. All 1,000 vouchers were exhausted before the Monday deadline. But there are up to 500,000 bump stocks in the United States — and therein lies the problem. Buyback programs are a relatively easy step for states and localities to try, since they are voluntary and generally require no legislation. But taking a few hundred or even a few thousand weapons out of circulation barely dents the national nonmilitary supply of 300 million firearms — nearly one for every citizen — and gun manufacturers have been adding about eight million more a year, according to the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives. Moreover, the guns that are turned in tend to be the least likely ones to be used in violent crime. And there is little or nothing to stop guns from flowing back into a community from out of town or out of state. “The people who are highest-risk don’t participate, like young males,” said Jon Vernick of the Johns Hopkins Center for Gun Policy and Research in Baltimore. “The highest-risk guns, the newer, higher-caliber weapons and semiautomatics are not what’s collected. You get a disproportionate number of revolvers and broken guns.” Mr. Vernick said the story may be different with buybacks aimed at very specific items like bump stocks, which have not yet been widely studied.Though removing a gun from a household can make that household safer, studies by Johns Hopkins researchers and others have found that buybacks have little impact on gun violence rates in the community as a whole.When the bounty offered for each weapon is low, few people take part. But raising it to attract more guns can have unintended consequences. Baltimore, one of the first American cities to offer a buyback in 1974, tried another in December, offering $25 to any city resident who brought in a high-capacity magazine. But observers quickly spotted that many high-capacity magazines could be bought online for $9 to $15, and then turned in to the city for a tidy profit. Oakland, Calif., had a similar problem with a buyback program in 2008.“If you want to have lots of guns, you raise the incentive,” Mr. Vernick said. “There’s a risk of raising the price too high, and people bringing in cheap, broken guns and using the money to trade up.”After 35 people died in a mass shooting in Australia in 1996, the country undertook a sweeping nationwide program with buybacks, registration requirements and outright bans. The government spent 500 million Australian dollars ($395 million) to collect and destroy about 640,000 guns — roughly one-third of all the guns in the country. Since then, rates of gun violence and gun suicides have tumbled, and there have been no mass shootings in the country.Prime Minister Jacinda Ardern of New Zealand pointed to Australia’s success as an inspiration for her plans. When Congress enacted a federal ban on assault weapons and large-capacity magazines in 1994, there was no national, federally financed gun buyback program like Australia’s, though some local governments held buybacks. The ban was riddled with loopholes, most notably exempting weapons manufactured before the law took effect, so it left more than 1.5 million assault weapons in legal circulation, and owners had little incentive to turn them in. The ban expired after 10 years, and a study afterward found that it had only a limited impact on gun crime. AdvertisementSupported byBy Ashley Southall[What you need to know to start the day: Get New York Today in your inbox.]President Trump, his eldest son, and his former lawyer, Michael D. Cohen, were among a roster of rich and powerful people who received gun licenses from the New York Police Department in return for special favors, a former lieutenant has claimed in court papers.The former lieutenant, Paul Dean, said the men received permits to carry guns in New York City without the proper paperwork after donating to two charities with close ties to the department. They were among a list of other well-connected people who Mr. Dean said benefited from a “systematic culture of corruption” that stretched from the department’s gun licensing division to the upper echelons of the department.The police commissioner, James P. O’Neill, said the allegations by Mr. Dean, who has pleaded guilty to approving gun licenses in exchange for bribes while he was the second-in-command of the department’s licensing division, are “highly suspect.”“These claims were investigated thoroughly by our I.A.B. — internal affairs — the F.B.I.’s public corruption unit and overseen by federal prosecutors,” Mr. O’Neill said on Thursday, a day after Mr. Dean made the allegations. “These investigations found no credible basis to charge any other individuals.”Mr. Trump told The Washington Times in 2012 that he had a concealed-carry permit and two semiautomatic pistols. Four years later, he told a French magazine that he “always” carries a firearm.The Police Department does not disclose the names of gun license holders and would not confirm whether the president, his son and former lawyer still have valid licenses to carry firearms. The White House referred questions to Mr. Trump’s outside counsel, and the Trump Organization declined to comment.Mr. Cohen, who pleaded guilty to federal charges that he lied to Congress about negotiations to build a Trump tower in Russia, now has a felony conviction and would be prohibited by state and federal law from having a gun. Lanny J. Davis, Mr. Cohen’s lawyer, said he could not comment because he had no knowledge of Mr. Dean’s claims.Mr. Dean was  arrested in 2017 on charges he accepted gifts and favors from middlemen in exchange for gun permits that are difficult to obtain; he ultimately pleaded guilty to bribery. The others arrested included Robert Espinel, David Villanueva and Richard Ochetal.The list of names was included among court papers that Mr. Dean filed ahead of his sentencing later this month. He said he had hoped his cooperation would lead prosecutors to recommend a lighter sentence. But he faces up to five years in prison after prosecutors deemed the information “insubstantial.”The list also includes John Catsimatidis, a billionaire businessman and radio host; Thomas Mottola, the former chief executive of Sony; and the actor Tracy Morgan.Mr. Dean, 46, said that the quid-pro-quo culture extended to former police commissioner, Raymond W. Kelly, who directed him to issue a gun license to the crown prince of Jordan so that a city police detective stationed in the Middle Eastern country could carry a firearm there. Mr. Kelly could not be reached for comment.Mr. Dean said most of the suspect gun licenses were ordered by his boss, Deputy Inspector Michael Endall, who was transferred to the division in 2008 to be “a point of contact for anyone needing help to get gun licenses, particularly those people connected with the police unions, the Police Athletic League or the N.Y.C. Police Foundation,” Mr. Dean said. Reached by telephone, Mr. Endall declined to comment.Frederick J. Watts, the executive director of the Police Athletic League, said the nonprofit operates independently of the Police Department. “We have no role in who gets gun licenses; that is all up to the N.Y.P.D.,” he said.A spokesman for the New York City Police Foundation said Mr. Dean’s allegation “has nothing to do with our work.”Mr. Endall took over as the gun licensing division’s commanding officer in August 2014. Mr. Dean said the current deputy commissioner for counterterrorism, John J. Miller, later attended a meeting during which William J. Bratton, then the newly appointed commissioner, asked Mr. Endall to stay on with the new administration to continue the “current ‘favor’ system for retirees and donors.”Mr. Bratton did not respond to a request for comment on Thursday. Mr. Miller said the meeting never happened.“Everyone he’s referred to there has had their pistol licenses for between 10, 25 and 40 years,” Mr. Miller said. “So I think there’s a lot more fluff in that document than there is facts.”A woman who frequented Police Headquarters with Orthodox Jewish clients had ties to the mayor, Mr. Dean said Mr. Endall told him. “This person takes care of Mayor De Blasio, and in return we are supposed to take care of this person,” Mr. Dean recalled his supervisor saying.At least once, a tainted license had fatal consequences, Mr. Dean said. Mr. Endall, he said, ordered him to return a gun license to a businessman known as the “Cherry King,” who later fatally shot himself in the head during a raid on his plant.Mr. O’Neill said that Mr. Endall was disciplined before he retired in 2017. He did not say what the punishment was, although Mr. Endall was allowed to keep a lucrative pension.Officials could not say whether the licenses of any people named by Mr. Dean had been revoked.The 2017 arrests prompted an overhaul of the gun licensing division, including the replacement of top commanders and a reorganization that added oversight. Applications are now required to be submitted online, and each step of the licensing process is handled by different people — and recorded in an electronic database, officials said.“I have complete confidence in the leadership down at the gun licensing division,” Mr. O’Neill said.AdvertisementSupported byBy Tiffany HsuDick’s Sporting Goods, one of the largest firearms retailers in the United States, is moving further away from selling guns, even as the shift takes a toll on its earnings.On Tuesday, Dick’s said that it would strip firearms and other hunting products from 125 of its stores and replace the merchandise with batting cages, ski apparel and other sports gear. If the switch is successful, as it was at 10 stores where it was tested starting in the fall, it will be expanded, the company said.The latest move to scale back gun sales is becoming a familiar one for the company and its chief executive, Edward Stack.Last year, after 17 people were killed in a shooting in Parkland, Fla., Mr. Stack learned that the suspect, Nikolas Cruz, once bought a gun from Dick’s. That firearm was not used in the attack, but Mr. Stack realized it could have been.Shaken by the link, Mr. Stack, a longtime gun owner, introduced measures that made it harder to buy firearms at Dick’s stores, and he pressed Congress to adopt gun-safety measures. He aligned himself with gun-control activists; was shunned by gun sellers, buyers and firearms industry employees; and became one of the most cited names in a gun debate increasingly crowded with corporate voices.He appeared at conferences with Laurence D. Fink, the chief executive of BlackRock; Mark Bertolini, a former chief executive of Aetna; and other executives with strong opinions on gun control. In the process, Mr. Stack became a model for business leaders wading into contentious social issues.But  his outspoken approach may have put pressure on his company, which sells much more than guns. In announcing its earnings on Tuesday, Dick’s said adjusted same-store sales fell 3.1 percent in the 12 months that ended Feb. 2 from the comparable period a year earlier.In the fourth quarter, which included the holiday shopping season, adjusted same-store sales were down 2.2 percent. Net income for the quarter fell to $102.6 million, or $1.07 a share, from $116 million, or $1.11 a share in the year-earlier period.Public reaction to the policies Dick’s introduced after the Parkland shooting was a “meaningful driver” in the declines, Mr. Stack said in a conference call with analysts on Tuesday. Intensifying competition from Amazon was another, analysts said.The company, which is based in the Pittsburgh area, said it expected its sales for this year to range from flat to a 2 percent increase.In trading on Tuesday, Dick’s shares fell 11 percent from the previous close. But the stock, adjusted for dividends, is up more than 10 percent since Mr. Stack decided to remove AR-15-style and other semiautomatic rifles from the company’s Field & Stream stores soon after the Parkland shooting. Stores operating under the Dick’s logo had already stopped selling such weapons after the 2012 shooting at Sandy Hook Elementary School in Newtown, Conn., in which 26 people, including 20 children, were killed.Both chains stopped selling guns and ammunition to customers younger than 21 last year. The company includes 729 Dick’s Stores, 94 Golf Galaxy stores and 35 Field & Stream stores.Mr. Stack, whose father started Dick’s in 1948, said in a recent interview that the company had “been in the gun business basically since inception.” Gun demand broadly, he said, is “under pressure” and is “going to continue to be under pressure.”Firearm sales, according to an estimate from the Small Arms Analytics & Forecasting research firm, slumped 12.4 percent in February from a year earlier, to 1.1 million units.The drop “certainly appears to validate the ongoing challenging market conditions,” James Debney, the chief executive of American Outdoor Brands, said this month. The company, which owns the Smith & Wesson firearms brand, announced a $5.7 million loss in its third quarter, causing its stock to plunge.Interest in hunting has been on a steady decline in the United States for decades. Mr. Stack said in the interview that the hunting category had “deteriorated” for Dick’s in recent years.In the 10 stores where hunting products were not selling well and were replaced with other merchandise, sales improved during the test, Mr. Stack said on the call on Tuesday. If the expanded trial “goes as well as expected, we’d probably take another batch of stores next year,” he said.Mr. Stack said the shift was meant to make Dick’s stores more “productive.” But Camilla Yanushevsky, an analyst with the research firm CFRA, said that phasing out hunting products was “largely a sign of solidarity with Parkland victims, as well as a form of social activism.”The Parkland shooting inspired other companies to embrace gun safety activism.Delta Air Lines, MetLife and  others cut ties with the National Rifle Association after the attack. Citigroup and Bank of America placed restrictions on gun industry clients. In November, a group of pension funds and other investors circulated a list of guidelines for gun companies with the goal of improving transparency and safety.“It is up to the private sector to continue this conversation,” Mr. Stack said in the interview, “however slowly it moves.”But gun rights advocates have resisted corporate involvement in their cause.Months ago, American Outdoor Brands shareholders unexpectedly won a vote that asked the company to address the risks associated with its products and gun violence. Last month, the company wrote in response that its “reputation as a strong defender of the Second Amendment is not worth risking for a vague goal of improving the company’s reputation among noncustomers or special interest groups with an anti-Second Amendment agenda.”Some of Dick’s 45,000 employees felt the same about Mr. Stack’s decision to restrict gun sales, with 62 resigning over the last year, he said. The National Shooting Sports Foundation voted to expel Dick’s from its membership. Manufacturers like O. F. Mossberg & Sons stopped selling to the chain, although Mr. Stack said Dick’s still had access to Mossberg products through distributors.Mr. Stack also said he had received some threats and had increased security measures meant to protect him and the company. But he said he had no plans to curb his gun-safety efforts.He recently signed an open letter supporting universal background-check legislation that last month became the first major gun control measure in decades to pass the House. Along with executives from Levi Strauss and RXR Realty, he became one of the first members of a business council organized by Everytown for Gun Safety, a major gun safety advocacy group. He is looking into smart gun technology now being developed, calling it “helpful from a gun violence standpoint.”“People in the gun business are not terribly happy with us,” he said. “They said we were toxic, which is fine with us; we’re not going to change the way we’re going.”Follow Tiffany Hsu on Twitter: @tiffkhsu.AdvertisementSupported byBy Matthew HaagA Delta Air Lines passenger carried a loaded gun by accident through airport security in Atlanta earlier this month and took it on a flight to Japan, officials with the Transportation Security Administration said.The passenger later discovered the firearm and alerted the authorities, who met the plane when it landed on Jan. 3 in Tokyo, officials said. The gun was taken through a T.S.A. checkpoint at Hartsfield-Jackson International Airport in Atlanta on Jan. 2, the 11th day of the partial federal government shutdown, as concerns were growing that security agents, who are working without pay, might not show up.But a T.S.A. spokesman, Michael Bilello, insisted on Monday that the shutdown was not to blame for the security breach and that the gun was undetected because “standard procedures were not followed.” About five percent of T.S.A. employees nationwide did not report to work on the day of the flight, Wednesday, Jan. 2, which was the identical rate of unscheduled absences on Wednesday, Jan. 3, 2018, Mr. Bilello said.He said the agency did not release staffing rates for individual airports and would not specify what “standard procedures” were not observed. There are 51,000 airport security agents nationwide.“There was not a staffing issue as some are speculating or alluding to,” Mr. Bilello said in an email on Monday. “T.S.A. will hold those responsible appropriately accountable.”The identity of the Delta passenger has not been released publicly, and a Delta spokesman on Monday referred questions to the T.S.A. Japanese transportation officials have said that the passenger, who was female, returned to the United States.The T.S.A. said that 7.6 percent of employees had unscheduled absences on Monday morning, more than double the rate from the year before. The Atlanta airport was one of two airports in the country to implement “contingency plans” on Monday because of absences and other issues.Across the United States, thousands of guns are confiscated on average every year at airport security or in checked luggage. In 2017, for instance, 3,957 firearms were recovered in carry-on bags at American airports and 84 percent of them were loaded, the T.S.A. said.More than 290 weapons had been discovered in 2018 through the beginning of November in Atlanta, the busiest airport in the country, according to the Justice Department. That number was an 18-point increase from the total recovered in all of 2017, when the Atlanta airport led the country with the most firearms discovered at 245, the department said.Travelers with guns without a firearm license will be arrested, the T.S.A. said, while anyone discovered with a gun can also face a fine of up to $13,000 per violation. Mr. Bilello said the Delta passenger had been “fully cooperative with authorities.”Hisako Ueno contributed reporting.AdvertisementSupported byBy Catie EdmondsonWASHINGTON — The House voted Thursday to extend the time allotted for the F.B.I. to conduct background checks for gun purchasers flagged by the national instant check system, the second major gun control bill to clear the chamber this week after two decades of inaction.Democratic leaders also succeeded in quelling a small rebellion among freshman Democrats from Republican-leaning districts, persuading them to oppose a politically freighted Republican procedural motion after they backed a similar motion on Wednesday.The 228-to-198 vote aims to extend the background check review period for gun purchasers to 10 days. Currently, the F.B.I. must perform its review and determine whether there is sufficient evidence to deny a purchase in three business days. If it cannot complete the review within that time, a buyer may return to the dealer on the fourth day to purchase a firearm.That provision in current law allowed Dylann S. Roof to purchase a handgun and kill nine people at a historic black church in Charleston, S.C., in 2015, even though he should have been denied his firearm.“Let’s give the F.B.I., the authorities, enough time to do their job and save lives,” Representative James E. Clyburn of South Carolina, the majority whip and the bill’s sponsor, implored his colleagues from the House floor.Both gun control bills that cleared the House this week face dim prospects in the Senate, but they were cause for celebration for the gun-control activists that mobilized last year after a series of horrific mass shootings.While Thursday’s bill was expected to easily clear the Democrat-controlled chamber, a dose of drama was added after House Republicans staged a successful ambush during the vote on the first gun control measure on Wednesday.In an attempt to divide Democrats and draw out vulnerable swing-district members, Republicans offered a provision that would require the F.B.I. to alert Immigration and Customs Enforcement if an undocumented immigrant tried to obtain a firearm. Twenty-six Democrats broke party lines to support the measure, catching Democratic leadership caught off guard.House Republicans tried a repeat ambush on Thursday, surprising Democrats with a last-minute motion to exempt victims of domestic abuse from the new 10-day waiting period. This time, following strict marching orders from Speaker Nancy Pelosi, the motion failed, with only two Democrats, Representatives Jeff Van Drew of New Jersey and Collin C. Peterson of Minnesota, voting for the measure.“Vote no, just vote no, because the fact is a vote yes is to give leverage to the other side and surrender leverage on the floor of the House,” Ms. Pelosi told reporters on Thursday.At a meeting of House Democrats before the vote, Representative Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez of New York implored moderates to vote against the Republican-led motions and, in an implicit threat, added that she would make it clear to liberal activists which members supported the Republican measures, according to officials in the room.But some moderate freshmen, including Representative Xochitl Torres Small of New Mexico, stood up and explained how difficult the votes have been for them.House Republicans have sought to weaponize the procedural motion, using politically fraught measures to test the new Democrats’ resolve. The measures rarely hold the force of law, but a no vote even on a procedural motion could show up in a 30-second attack ad next year. Republicans succeeded in attaching a resolution condemning anti-Semitism and the boycott-Israel movement to a bill designed to halt American aid to Saudi Arabia’s war in Yemen after even Democratic leaders gave up on opposing it.“All they want to do is feed red meat to their base,” Representative Veronica Escobar, Democrat of Texas, said of House Republicans. “I’m hoping that colleagues of mine will see it that way and understand that these procedural motions — even the best-worded procedural motion — has not had the chance to go through the process” of committee consideration.Amid concern that some Democrats will continue to break away on tough votes, some House leaders are weighing revising the rules to require Republicans to give them more notice on the content of procedural motions.Representative Joe Cunningham, Democrat of South Carolina, who has voted for Republican-backed motions, played down their importance on Thursday.“These little motions and minor bills should not take attention away from the fact that progress is being made to keep people safe,” said Mr. Cunningham, one of the co-sponsors of Mr. Clyburn’s gun control bill.Ms. Pelosi signaled that she was not keen to change the rules, but added that it could be a topic for consideration by a select committee studying potential changes to “modernize” the House.“I am a big believer in respecting the whole House and the rights of the minority to have their say,” Ms. Pelosi told reporters.The “Charleston loophole” bill did show some of the old divisions that have plagued Democrats in the past over gun control. Seven Democrats voted no, including freshmen Anthony Brindisi of New York, Jared Golden of Maine, Kendra Horn of Oklahoma, Ben McAdams of Utah and Ms. Torres Small of New Mexico, all of whom won Republican districts in November.Only three Republicans voted yes.AdvertisementSupported bynews analysisThe country’s leaders want a solution, not just the problem, to become a global phenomenon.By Damien CaveMr. Cave is the Australia bureau chief for The New York Times.CHRISTCHURCH, New Zealand — The ad hoc memorial at the police cordon spread out across a wide area. Within a few hours of the terrorist attack that stole the lives of 50 people at two mosques here, there was a mountain of flowers and handwritten messages filled with anguish.“This is your home and you should have been safe here.”“Our love and prayers and sympathy are with you.”“Christchurch, Christchurch, what will we do?”The memorial was the first thing I saw when I arrived outside the first mosque the gunman targeted. Like many others, I snapped a few photos of the memorial and posted one to Instagram. But then immediately, I had a moment of dйjа vu. I’d taken a very similar set of pictures in 2016 when I was covering the aftermath of the Pulse nightclub shooting in Orlando, Fla.The Pulse attack had seemed like such an American nightmare — a mass shooting driven by hate — and now that nightmare had found its way to the other side of the world, to a laid-back country where violence is so rare that there isn’t even any airport security when you fly to regional hubs. From the vantage point of this city of 375,000, the signature American exports of our age were not freedom and Hollywood fantasy but rather a cocktail of gun culture, white supremacy and Facebook, where the killer live-streamed the attack with a camera that gave it the look of an American video game.And while the causes have spread along with Instagrammable memorials, the question emerging here a week later is whether potential solutions can be globalized too.Prime Minister Jacinda Ardern is doing what she can to lead the way. She announced a ban on military-style assault rifles and ammunition Thursday. She has hammered social media companies for allowing and amplifying extremism. She even went to a high school this week, which lost two of its students in the attack, and told the children they need to fight prejudice.“Let New Zealand be a place where there is no tolerance for racism,” she said. “That’s something we can all do.”And yet, it’s hard to see how places like New Zealand can ever feel safe without some changes internationally. “We need to understand American laws because they affect us,” one commentator said on Radio New Zealand this week.Indeed the lack of legislative effort by American lawmakers on the issues that helped spawn the Christchurch attack — guns, racism and tech platforms — is no longer just a frustration in the United States. Now it wounds the world.There’s hard work to be done for that to change. The solution is not praying for victims or praising Ms. Ardern on Twitter. What New Zealanders want is for Americans to learn from others, for globalization to go the other way, even if it means limitations on fundamental U.S. of A. freedoms.On guns, countries like New Zealand have less to confront: Of the 3.9 million New Zealanders of gun-licensing age, 238,000 — just 6 percent — have a firearm license, according to the website GunPolicy.org. In the United States, three in 10 adults say they own a firearm.Tech companies are another challenge. Despite a growing body of research showing that the algorithms of YouTube, Facebook and other social media platforms push people further into violent extremism, getting those companies and their employees to dial back their self-regard and shift their priorities may be as hard as persuading gun owners to give up their AR-15s.And let’s be honest: Those are the easy things to fix compared with racism and white supremacy.Some Muslims in Christchurch are hoping that the unity of the community and New Zealand officials will set a new standard.“If we can use what happened here to say enough is enough, if we can promote what we call in New Zealand ‘aroha,’” said Mustafa Farouk, president of the Federation of Islamic Associations of New Zealand, using the Maori word for love, “maybe the people behind these shootings will change.”But according to others, the changes will need to become more common, below the ranks of public figures.Here in Christchurch, one of the first people I contacted when I arrived was Kumar Yogeeswaran, a senior lecturer in psychology at the University of Canterbury who studies diversity and received his Ph.D. from the University of Massachusetts.We discussed the deep societal problem of not just violent racism but also the casual racism that feeds it. He said many of his nonwhite students in Christchurch have come to him with stories of ethnic slurs hurled at them or colleagues at work mocking their accents. In the aftermath of the attacks, he said some students have heard white New Zealanders express anti-immigrant sentiments, asking why they’re here and why they’ve come.“When an earthquake hits, the whole community grieves together,” Mr. Yogeeswaran said. A mass shooting that killed mostly immigrants — all of them Muslim — has not quite done the same, some New Zealanders said, noting that the unaffected have been quicker to move on while others fear additional violence from extremists across the ideological spectrum.In 2008, I wrote an article about Derek Black, who was then trying to run for local office in Florida as a white supremacist. He later renounced those views, and we were in touch this past week, emailing a bit about how New Zealand and the world could accelerate and expand the shift he made from hate to inclusion.“When Ardern says that the people who were attacked ‘are us,’ that has to become a sentiment that does not sound surprising or untrue to people,” he said. “This is a long process of people, particularly white people, redefining their in-groups and national identity.”Mr. Black thinks the only way to do this is for people not to isolate themselves.The memorials I saw were perhaps a baby step in that direction, our shared emotions made visible in lilies and words that linger.But some people did not stop there. On Thursday, I met Michael Tarren-Sweeney, a professor of child and family psychology, as he was leaving the funeral of Junaid Ismail, one of the victims. Mr. Tarren-Sweeney told me he worked with Mr. Ismail’s sister, and when I shook his hand he had dirt on it from participating in the Muslim tradition of burial, in which mourners toss handfuls of earth into the grave.Just behind him, leaning against a concrete pole at the cemetery’s edge, was Caitlin Phillips. “I’m just paying my respects,” she said. She had an iPhone in her hand. Had she seen news of the funerals on social media? Had she gone to the memorials?“No, I live around the corner,” she said. “I just wanted to come because I’ve lived here 18 years, all my life, and I’ve never seen anything so wrong.”The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. We’d like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips. And here's our email: letters@nytimes.com.Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram.AdvertisementSupported byBy Shasta DarlingtonSГO PAULO, Brazil — President Jair Bolsonaro of Brazil signed a decree on Tuesday making it easier to buy guns and signaling he will follow through on his campaign promise to tackle the country’s epidemic of violence by arming the “good guys” and crushing violent drug gangs.Mr. Bolsonaro was sworn in on Jan. 1 after a decisive electoral victory last year that was bolstered by his vows to combat crime with an iron fist and reduce Brazil’s record-high murder rate. Simulating guns with his fingers at campaign rallies, he pledged to make it easier for the police to shoot suspects and to relax the country’s restrictive firearms law.Two weeks into his term, he took what he called a “first step” to those ends, to be followed by further congressional measures.“I signed this decree, created by many upstanding people, so that at this first moment, upstanding citizens can have peace inside their homes,” Mr. Bolsonaro said at a signing ceremony in the capital, Brasнlia.The presidential decree eliminates the requirement that applicants formally declare why they need a gun and have that argument approved by the police — a provision that is widely considered the most bureaucratic aspect of the country’s firearms regulations.Mr. Bolsonaro said the new rules remove the “discretionary” role played by the police, replacing it with a list of specific conditions that justify the “necessity” to own a gun. Those conditions include being responsible for a commercial or industrial establishment, being a gun collector or hunter, living in a rural area or living in a city with elevated crime rates — as the vast majority of Brazilians do.The decree also extends the registration renewal period to 10 years from five.Many other aspects of Brazil’s 2003 gun control law, the Disarmament Statute, remain unaltered. Applicants for gun ownership must be at least 25 years old, have no criminal history, provide proof of a steady job and fixed residence, pass a psychological test and have gun training. And it is still illegal to carry guns outside of homes and places of work.“He is fulfilling a campaign pledge which is in line with his 27 years in Congress,” said Robert Muggah, research director at the Igarapй Institute, which focuses on security issues. “You can be sure we’ll see additional measures in the coming year.”A former army captain, Mr. Bolsonaro was for many years a marginal, far-right voice in Brazil’s Congress, best known for his verbal attacks against women, gay people and black people before persuading voters in the 2018 presidential election that he was the best candidate to take on entrenched political corruption and soaring violence.In 2017, Brazil set a new murder record of 30.8 per 100,000 people, according to the Brazilian Forum of Public Security, a research organization. In comparison, the United States had 5.3 homicides per 100,000 people in 2017 — the most recent year for which data are available — and Mexico had a murder rate of 25 per 100,000 people in 2017.The euphoria surrounding Mr. Bolsonaro’s rise in the polls prompted many Brazilians to sign up for gun training even before he won the election in October, and fueled a spike in the share price of the Brazilian gun manufacturer Taurus.Though Tuesday’s announcement will delight many of Mr. Bolsonaro’s supporters, and despite anger over the widespread violence, most Brazilians still favor strict regulation of guns. According to a poll conducted last month, 61 percent think civilian gun ownership should be banned.A powerful group of lawmakers in Congress, sometimes called the “bullet lobby,” has vowed to further relax regulations and tackle restrictions on carrying guns. But research groups have argued that greater access to guns has historically fueled violence.“Instead of doubling down on dismantling firearm legislation, we would be better off enforcing the existing rules,” said Mr. Muggah. “By extending the registration period, you are expanding the likelihood of guns finding their way to the streets.”AdvertisementSupported byOther nations’ leaders learn from experience. But Congress and President Trump refuse to act on guns.By Nicholas KristofOpinion ColumnistWhen a terrorist massacred 50 people at two New Zealand mosques last week, Prime Minister Jacinda Ardern immediately grasped the nettle. “I can tell you one thing right now,” she told a news conference. “Our gun laws will change.”That’s what effective leadership looks like. New Zealand’s cabinet has now agreed in principle to overhaul those laws, experts are reviewing ways to make the country safer from firearms and, Ardern promised, “within 10 days of this horrific act of terrorism, we will have announced reforms.”Contrast that with the United States, where just since 1970, more Americans have died from guns (1.45 million, including murders, suicides and accidents) than died in all the wars in American history (1.4 million). More Americans die from guns every 10 weeks than died in the entire Afghanistan and Iraq wars combined, yet we still don’t have gun safety rules as rigorous as New Zealand’s even before the mosques were attacked.The N.R.A. (not to be confused with the vast majority of gun owners) will turn to its old smoke-and-mirrors standby, arguing that the killer’s hate, not his guns and bullets, were the real problem.But while it’s true that white supremacy is deadly and needs to be confronted — something our vote-obsessed president blindly ignores — without the weapons of mass murder, 50 New Zealand worshipers would still be alive; 17 Parkland, Fla., schoolchildren and staff members would still be alive; nine Charleston, S.C., churchgoers would still be alive; 11 Pittsburgh congregants would still be alive; 58 Las Vegas concertgoers would still be alive; 26 Newtown, Conn., first graders and adults would. …Why can’t leaders in America learn from experience, the way leaders in other countries do? After a massacre in Australia in 1996, the government there took far-reaching action to tighten gun policy. In contrast, every day in America, another hundred people die from gun violence and 300 more are injured — and our president and Congress do nothing.[Follow Nicholas Kristof as he travels around the United States and the world, shedding light on crises and hailing unsung heroes. For a behind-the-scenes look at Nick’s gritty journalism, sign up for his newsletter.]In fairness, liberals have often been unhelpful, broadcasting their own ignorance about the firearms they propose to regulate, or speaking blithely of banning guns or of “gun control” in ways that drive responsible gun owners into the arms of the N.R.A. I suggest dropping references to “gun control” and instead speaking of “gun safety.”It’s also true that there are no simple solutions. The U.S. now has more guns than people, so criminals have a steady supply — and so do ordinary Americans at a time when suicides are at a 30-year high.But gun laws do make a difference. When Connecticut tightened licensing laws in 1995, firearm homicide rates dropped by 40 percent. And when Missouri eased gun laws in 2007, gun homicide rates surged by 25 percent.Polls show some measures have broad backing. For starters, more than 90 percent even of gun owners support universal background checks to ensure that people are legally allowed to own a gun before they buy one.Astonishingly, about 22 percent of guns in the U.S. are still acquired without a background check. In parts of the U.S., you need a more thorough background check to adopt a dog than to acquire a semiautomatic AR-15 weapon.The House passed a bill last month to require universal background checks, but it has little chance in the Senate this year.Another basic step: Keep guns out of the hands of people shown to present a danger to themselves or others, such as when they are suicidal or threatening a domestic partner. Fourteen states have such “red flag” laws, and similar legislation is before Congress to achieve something similar at a national level.We should likewise invest more in “smart guns” that can be fired only by an authorized person; it’s outrageous that my phone requires a pin or fingerprint but that an AR-15 doesn’t. That would help with the estimated 200,000 guns stolen each year.The regulatory model to follow is automobiles. We haven’t outlawed cars, but we have required safety modifications (seatbelts, airbags) and limited access to them (licenses, bans after drunken driving) in ways that have sharply reduced the fatality rate per miles driven.If we took this approach to guns, many Americans would still die. But experts have suggested to me that we could plausibly reduce gun deaths by about one-third, saving 13,000 lives a year.Slowly, the tide of public opinion is shifting. The N.R.A.’s extremism is turning some people off, and it seems on the defensive, so eventually we may follow New Zealand. But how many more people will die before the president and Congress act?AdvertisementSupported byBy Mihir ZaveriPeople under 21 are no longer able to buy semiautomatic assault rifles in Washington as of Jan 1. It is the first of several new state measures intended to reduce gun violence. The National Rifle Association has already filed suit.Previously, state law barred the assault weapons’ sale to those under 18. The new rules, approved by voters in a ballot initiative in November, come alongside dozens of moves by other states to strengthen gun control regulations in the absence of federal action.“It is a meaningful step in the right direction,” said Christian Heyne, legislative director at the Coalition to Stop Gun Violence, on Washington’s initiative. “Gun violence on the whole is such a complex problem. We need to have complex solutions, comprehensive solutions. This is a part of that conversation.”In addition to the age restrictions, Washington’s new rules state that gun dealers must wait 10 days before delivering semiautomatic assault rifles they sell. That is designed, in part, to prevent impulsive action. The rules also require anyone buying a semiautomatic assault rifle to have completed a gun safety training in the last five years. The measure also imposes criminal penalties for unsafe gun storage, and requires more extensive background checks for purchases of the assault weapons.Most of the new rules take effect in July.“Every component is extremely important,” said Renee Hopkins, chief executive of the Alliance for Gun Responsibility, the group that sponsored the ballot initiative. “This package really looks to reduce suicide, reduce accidental shootings and also reduce everyday gun violence, interpersonal gun violence, that we see playing out.”The Nov. 6 ballot initiative passed with more than 59 percent of the vote.According to the Giffords Law Center to Prevent Gun Violence, state legislatures in 2018 passed 69 gun control measures, more than any other year since the Newtown, Conn., massacre in 2012, and more than three times the number passed in 2017. They included adding or improving state background checks, increasing regulations for concealed firearms and restricting firearm use for domestic abusers.Opponents of Washington’s ballot initiative said its provisions to safely store guns would make them “unavailable” for self-defense. It also said that banning sale of semiautomatic assault rifles to 18- to 20-year-olds “would leave already vulnerable segments of the population defenseless to attack.” The N.R.A. and the Second Amendment Foundation have filed a lawsuit saying that the age restrictions violate the Constitution.But gun control groups say public pressure has been mounting in response to recent high-profile mass shootings, including the slaughter at a country musical festival in Las Vegas that left 58 people dead and hundreds wounded in October 2017; and multiple shootings in 2018 at schools around the country, particularly at Marjory Stoneman Douglas High School in Parkland, Fla. In that shooting, a 19-year-old man killed 17 people with an AR-15 semiautomatic rifle in February.Mr. Heyne said Washington’s move, while not unique, is a “bellwether” for what could happen in the rest of the country.Gun-related deaths are increasing. The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention reported in December that the nearly 40,000 people who died from firearms injuries in the United States in 2017 was more than any other year since at least 1968. Nearly two-thirds of those deaths were suicides. The rate of gun deaths also increased to 12 deaths for every 100,000 people, the highest since the mid-1990s.Some states like California and Connecticut have near-total bans on assault weapons, according to the Giffords Law Center. Assault weapons, generally thought to be more lethal, have been used in deadly mass shootings like those in Parkland, Las Vegas, Newtown and San Bernardino, Calif.A New York Times analysis published in February found that 173 people have been killed since 2007 in mass shootings involving AR-15s. Yet they don’t make up a large chunk of gun violence in America, Mr. Heyne said.Ms. Hopkins said that existing laws already ban the sale of handguns to those under 21, and that the age change for semiautomatic assault rifles seeks to make the law consistent for the different type of firearms.Gun control figured heavily in the 2018 election, as gun control groups outspent the N.R.A. Congress has generally failed to pass any meaningful legislation. A federal ban on the manufacture of certain “assault weapons” took effect in 1994. It expired in 2004.No attempts to reinstate the federal assault weapons ban have been successful. In December, the Trump administration banned bump stocks, attachments that enable semiautomatic rifles to fire in sustained, rapid bursts.Gun rights organizations have succeeded in blocking other proposals at the federal level. And they are vowing to fight the states as well.“The N.R.A. will fight to overturn this unconstitutional initiative,” Chris W. Cox, executive director of N.R.A.’s Institute for Legislative Action, said of the Washington law, when the lawsuit was announced. “We will not sit idly by while elitist anti-gun activists attempt to deny everyday Americans their fundamental right to self-defense.”The N.R.A. did not respond to a request for comment Wednesday after the law took effect.“The gun lobby is trying to thwart the will of nearly 60 percent of Washingtonian voters who supported common-sense gun reform in our state,” Bob Ferguson, the state attorney general, said in a statement Wednesday. “We were not surprised the gun lobby filed a lawsuit. I look forward to representing the people of the State of Washington in court against the N.R.A.”Follow Mihir Zaveri on Twitter: @MihirZaveri.AdvertisementSupported byBy Richard Pйrez-Peсa and Claire MosesThe Dutch police said on Tuesday that they were still considering terrorism as a motive for a deadly shooting on a tram in the city of Utrecht based partly on a note they discovered.The shooting on Monday, which left at least three people dead and seven injured, and an ensuing manhunt prompted heightened security and sent ripples of fear through the Netherlands. A 37-year-old immigrant from Turkey was arrested Monday night.People who know the suspect, Gokmen Tanis, and family members in Turkey quoted by news organizations there, had said on Monday that they believed the assault grew out of some kind of domestic dispute.But the police said they had so far found no links between Mr. Tanis and the three people killed on the tram.“Thus far, a terrorist motive is being strongly considered,” the national police said on Tuesday.“The reason for this, among other things, is a note found in the getaway car,” they said, without elaboration. “Other motives aren’t being ruled out. These are being investigated as well.”The shooting jarred a country where gun violence is rare, and where there has not been the kinds of major terrorist attacks that have rocked Belgium, Britain, France and Germany in recent years. It came just days after a gunman, thought to be a white nationalist, killed 50 people at two mosques in Christchurch, New Zealand, prompting fears of either copycat attacks against Muslims or retaliatory attacks by them.The police said on Tuesday that they had found a firearm when Mr. Tanis was arrested. They did not say what kind of gun it was, or whether it was the weapon used in the attack.Mr. Tanis had been arrested several times before and was facing a rape charge. People who knew him from the Kanaleneiland neighborhood of Utrecht, home to many immigrants from Turkey and Morocco, described him as erratic, troubled and aggressive.Bart Nitrauw, a spokesman for the local prosecutor’s office, said in a phone interview: “We can’t say anything about what was in the letter, just that it was one of the reasons for the suspicion of a terror motive — the letter in the car, and what we found at the place where the suspect was arrested.”“In this stage of the investigation, we think it was one shooter,” Mr. Nitrauw said.The Utrecht shooting took place around 10:30 a.m. near 24 October Square, and the gunman fled. The police said the theft of a car at gunpoint nearby was tied to the attack, but the details were unclear.Three people — a 19-year-old woman and two men, ages 28 and 49 — were killed in the attack, and seven others were injured, three of them seriously. Officials have not publicly identified any of the victims.Unsure of the motive, how many people were involved, or where the killer was, the authorities quickly ramped up security and raised the terrorist threat assessment in Utrecht Province to the highest level. For several hours, the tram service was shut down around Utrecht, people were told to remain indoors, schools were locked down and officers in body armor were deployed to police stations, airports and other key locations.In addition to Mr. Tanis, two men in their 20s were arrested on Monday in connection with the shooting, but the police acknowledged that it was not clear what role, if any, they may have played in it. They said on Tuesday that the men, whom they did not identify, were still in custody and were being questioned. Another man was arrested on Tuesday night.Patrick Kingsley contributed reporting.AdvertisementSupported byBy ReutersSYDNEY — New Zealand police are investigating whether a man who died from a stab wound in a standoff on Wednesday had any connection with the March 15 shooting attack on two mosques in Christchurch, which killed 50 people.National police commissioner Mike Bush said Christchurch police found several firearms in a search of a local property late Tuesday evening. At about 12.30 a.m. on Wednesday, they located a 54 year-old man sought in relation to the firearms in a stopped vehicle.Police negotiators spoke with the man over a number of hours and officers approached the vehicle at around 3.40 a.m. Bush said the man was found in the car critically injured with what appeared to be a stab wound. A knife was located in the vehicle.First aid was applied but the man died at the scene. No firearms were discovered inside the vehicle."A high priority investigation is underway to determine whether or not the deceased man posed a threat to the community. This will include further searches of Christchurch properties and interviews with family and associates," Bush said."At this time there is no evidence to suggest this person had any involvement in the attacks of 15 March, however this forms an important part of the investigation."AdvertisementSupported byBy Rick Rojas and Kristin Hussey[What you need to know to start the day: Get New York Today in your inbox.]The Connecticut Supreme Court dealt a major blow to the firearms industry on Thursday, clearing the way for a lawsuit against the companies that manufactured and sold the semiautomatic rifle used by the gunman in the massacre at Sandy Hook Elementary School.The lawsuit mounted a direct challenge to the immunity that Congress granted gun companies to shield them from litigation when their weapons are used in a crime. The ruling allows the case, brought by victims’ families, to maneuver around the federal shield, creating a potential opening to bring claims to trial and hold the companies, including Remington, which made the rifle, liable for the attack.The decision represents a significant development in the long-running battle between gun control advocates and the gun lobby. And it stands to have wider ramifications, experts said, by charting a possible legal road map for victims’ relatives and survivors from other mass shootings who want to sue gun companies.In the lawsuit, the families seized upon the marketing for the AR-15-style Bushmaster used in the 2012 attack, which invoked the violence of combat and used slogans like “Consider your man card reissued.”Lawyers for the families argued that those messages reflected a deliberate effort to appeal to troubled young men like Adam Lanza, the 20-year-old who charged into the elementary school and killed 26 people, including 20 first graders, in a spray of gunfire. The attack traumatized the nation and made Newtown, Conn., the small town where it happened, a rallying point in the broader debate over gun violence.In the 4-3 ruling, the justices agreed with a lower court judge’s decision to dismiss most of the claims raised by the families, but also found that the sweeping federal protections did not prevent the families from bringing a lawsuit based on wrongful marketing claims. The court ruled that the case can move ahead based on a state law regarding unfair trade practices.In the majority opinion, the justices wrote that “it falls to a jury to decide whether the promotional schemes alleged in the present case rise to the level of illegal trade practices and whether fault for the tragedy can be laid at their feet.”The families hailed the ruling as a victory. “I am thrilled and tremendously grateful,” said Nicole Hockley, whose 6-year-old son Dylan was killed in his first-grade classroom. “No one has blanket immunity. There are consequences. We want our day in court to see why they do this this way, and what needs to change.”Beyond the lawsuit against the gun companies, victims’ families have also had successes recently in lawsuits against Alex Jones, the far-right provocateur, who spread bogus claims about the shooting, including that the families were actors involved in a wider plot to confiscate firearms.The families sought legal action after they received death threats and were targeted for harassment.As for the decision issued Thursday, lawyers for Remington, as well as other gun companies named in the suit, did not immediately respond to requests for comment.“The majority’s decision today is at odds with all other state and federal appellate courts that have interpreted the scope’’ of the federal protections, the National Shooting Sports Foundation, a trade association representing the firearm industry, said in a statement.The families faced long odds as they pursued a novel strategy to find a route around the federal protections and will confront major hurdles as the case proceeds. Their hope was to bring the case to trial, which could force gun companies to turn over internal communications that they have fiercely fought to keep private and provide a revealing and possibly damaging glimpse into how the industry operates.Nora Freeman Engstrom, a law professor at Stanford University and an author of an amicus brief signed by law professors in the case, said the ruling showed that the federal protections were “not impenetrable.”“This is not the end,” she said, adding, “Any path for plaintiffs will be long and strewn with obstacles. But this opinion suggests there may well be a road, which before was unclear.”The high stakes posed by the case stirred a vigorous response from both sides that only intensified after recurring episodes of deadly mass violence that followed the Newtown attack.Among those who lobbied in support of the lawsuit were gun violence prevention groups, emergency doctors who have treated patients wounded by assault rifle fire and a statewide association of school superintendents. Many gun-rights groups also raised concerns, including the National Rifle Association, which contended in its brief that allowing the case to move ahead stood to “eviscerate” the gun companies’ legal protections.The ruling comes as yet another twist in the lawsuit’s circuitous path through the court system, one that continued far longer than many, including legal experts and the families, had initially expected. “This decision was a long time in coming but it was more than worth the wait,” said Joshua D. Koskoff, a lawyer for the families.“These families were not going to go away,” he added, “no matter how long it took.”The ruling had been delayed after Remington, one of the nation’s oldest gun makers, filed for bankruptcy last year as its sales declined and debts mounted.The lawsuit, brought by family members of nine people who were killed and a teacher who was shot and survived, was originally filed in 2014, then moved to federal court, where a judge ordered that it be returned to the state level.The families were given a glimmer of hope when a State Superior Court judge, Barbara N. Bellis, permitted the case to approach a trial before she ultimately dismissed it. She found that the claims fell “squarely within the broad immunity” provided by federal law.In 2005, Congress passed the Protection of Lawful Commerce in Arms Act, which restricts lawsuits against gun sellers and makers by granting industrywide immunity from blame when one of their products is used in a crime. Lawmakers behind the measure cited a need to foil what they described as predatory and politically driven litigation.The law does allow exceptions for sale and marketing practices that violate state or federal laws and instances of so-called negligent entrustment, in which a gun is carelessly given or sold to a person posing a high risk of misusing it. The families pushed to broaden the scope to include the manufacturer, Remington, which was named in the suit, along with a wholesaler and a local retailer.The lawsuit said that the companies were wrong to entrust an untrained civilian public with a weapon designed for maximizing fatalities on the battlefield. Lawyers pointed out advertising — with messages of combat dominance and hyper-masculinity — that resonated with disturbed young men who could be induced to use the weapon to commit violence.“Remington may never have known Adam Lanza, but they had been courting him for years,” Mr. Koskoff, one of the lawyers representing the families, told the panel of judges during oral arguments in the case in 2017. The weapon used by Mr. Lanza had been legally purchased by his mother, Nancy Lanza, whom he also killed.Lawyers representing the gun companies argued that the claims raised in the lawsuit were specifically the kind that federal law inoculated them against. In oral arguments, lawyers for the companies argued that the weapons were marketed as being used for home defense and target practice, and not to commit violence.They said that agreeing with the families’ arguments would require amending the law or ignoring how it had been applied in the past.James B. Vogts, a lawyer for Remington, said in court that the shooting “was a tragedy that cannot be forgotten.”“But no matter how tragic,” he added, “no matter how much we wish those children and their teachers were not lost and those damages not suffered, the law needs to be applied dispassionately.”OpinionGun makers will face a jury. But it’s the play-soldier subculture they’ve promoted that’s being judged.A Bushmaster AR-15, the type of gun used in the Sandy Hook school massacre.CreditCreditJulie Dermansky/Corbis, via Getty ImagesSupported byBy The Editorial BoardThe editorial board represents the opinions of the board, its editor and the publisher. It is separate from the newsroom and the Op-Ed section.For years, uncompromising gun enthusiasts have demanded that politicians, the press and the American people never slander their beloved military-style semiautomatic rifles with the name “assault weapons.”Even though the guns are marketed with military imagery. Even though there’s a thriving business in aftermarket accessories, like thermal scopes and high-capacity magazines made to “military specification.” Even after these lethal weapons have been used to kill scores of people in massacre after massacre after massacre. Calling these rifles “assault weapons” is unfair, gun makers and their apologists insist, because it implies they are frightening weapons of war when they are sold for civilian use. This distinction, the fairness of it, matters not at all to the women, men and children wounded or killed by these guns.The Connecticut Supreme Court on Thursday permitted a civil suit to move forward against the companies that manufactured and sold the weapon used by the gunman to fire 154 rounds during a five-minute rampage through Sandy Hook Elementary School in 2012. It was an unexpected loss for the firearms industry, which has long enjoyed federal protection — granted by Congress —  from legal redress for the victims of its products. In this case, the court allowed the suit to proceed over whether the weapon maker violated state prohibitions against unfair trade practices. The plaintiffs argue that the AR-15-style rifle used in the attack had been marketed as a weapon of war in a campaign aimed deliberately at troubled young men like Adam Lanza, the Sandy Hook gunman.A trial could force gun companies to turn over internal communications about their advertising and sales operations. But the public doesn’t need internal emails to recognize the obvious incongruity between sanitized terminology like “modern sporting rifle” and ads with men dressed in tactical gear, swinging tricked-out AR-15s and creeping around like wannabe members of the Navy SEALs. The weapon used at Sandy Hook was advertised as “the ultimate combat weapons system” with the slogan: “Consider your man card reissued.”While it will be gun companies on the stand, the unindicted co-conspirator in the Connecticut courtroom is the portion of American gun culture — and it is only a portion — that fetishizes military weaponry with little regard to the dangers of putting such deadly weapons freely into the hands of a civilian population.AdvertisementSupported byYou’ll never guess why we have so much shooting.By Gail CollinsOpinion ColumnistPerhaps you missed it, but this week the House of Representatives held its first hearing on gun violence in eight years.I know, I know. You’ve had a lot to keep track of, what with everything from the meltdown in Virginia to Jeff Bezos’ selfies.But about the hearing. Testimony centered on a bill that would make it harder for people to buy guns without thorough background checks. Supporters pointed out that right now it’s ridiculously easy to get lethal weapons from an unlicensed seller who is not going to check to see if said purchaser might have a record of violence, stalking or involuntary commitment for mental illness.Amazing, right?Opponents hugged the Second Amendment and argued that the real reason we have so many deaths by gunfire is … Well, guess:A) GunsB) BulletsC) ImmigrantsYes! Are we living in the age of Trump or what?“I hope we do not forget the pain and anguish and sense of loss felt by those all over the country who have been the victims of violence at the hands of illegal aliens,” said Representative Matt Gaetz, a Florida Republican who read a short list of people who had been shot by undocumented immigrants. Better background checks, he contended, “would not have stopped many of the circumstances I raised, but a wall, a barrier on the southern border may have, and that’s what we’re fighting for.”Is there anything that the wall wouldn’t solve? Nearly 40,000 Americans died in gun violence in 2017, the last year for which we have records. But if only there’d been a huge concrete slab dividing us from Mexico, they’d be fine.There are a lot of lawmakers prepared to say almost anything, no matter how nutty, in their role as worker bees for the National Rifle Association. But it was sort of surprising that the lead ranter was from Florida.Next week we’ll be recalling the first anniversary of the Parkland high school shootings in which one student with a gun took the lives of 17 people. We just passed the second anniversary of the fatal shooting of five people in the baggage claim area of the Fort Lauderdale airport. Which came six months after 49 people were shot to death at a nightclub in Orlando. And it was just a couple of weeks ago that a young man walked into a bank in Sebring, Fla., pulled out a pistol, forced five women to lie on the ground and shot each one in the back of the head.All in Congressman Gaetz’s state. All the gunmen were native-born Americans. Perhaps Gaetz feels the border situation was sending dangerous vibes across the Gulf of Mexico and spurring them on.Americans are very, very strongly in favor of good background checks, and it does seem likely this bill will pass the newly Democratic House. Beyond minor technical fixes, that’ll be the first time either chamber has done anything about the issue of gun violence in years.Oh, wait. In 2017 the House and Senate got together and revoked an Obama-era regulation that had made it harder for mentally ill people to purchase a gun.It’s highly unlikely the background check bill will make it into law. “Color me unclear as to how we get Mitch McConnell to bring it up in the Senate,” said Chris Murphy of Connecticut, one of the Senate sponsors.Sigh. All you can do is keep on trying. It may not make the laws any better, but at least it’ll remind the public that some people in power are worried.We have terrible gun problems in this country not just because firearms are all over the place, but also because of the careless, stupid attitude so many people have toward them.Partly, I blame Congress. (Hey, it’s better than blaming a shortage of steel slat barriers.) Senator Murphy believes the endless rejection of any gun legislation looks like a kind of “moral green light” to potential killers: “I truly believe these young men who have something very dark happening in their minds watch our silence and interpret it as an endorsement.”It certainly helps perpetuate the attitude that guns are a casual part of everyday life, like your wallet or socks — something you wear when you go out to buy a loaf of bread, leave lying around the house and treat in general with less care and discretion than a light bulb.Last year safety inspectors at American airports found 4,239 firearms in passengers’ carry-on bags — almost all of them loaded and a third with a bullet already in the chamber. While a few of those people may have been plotting a crime, it’s pretty clear the vast majority were just incredibly careless with lethal weapons.This is the kind of thinking that gives us endless mayhem involving violent, semi-deranged young men who just grab one of the family guns and mow down five people in a bar. Toddlers who shoot themselves when they stumble across a gun that Dad or Granddad left sitting on the bed. Or find a rifle in the back seat of the car and accidentally kill Mom while she’s pulling into the preschool parking lot.We hear stories like that every day. Obviously, it’s all because of those caravans of immigrants coming to the border.AdvertisementSupported byBy The Associated PressHARTFORD CITY, Ind. — An Indiana woman whose 15-year-old son took a handgun to school has been sentenced to four years in prison.The 40-year-old Hartford City woman was sentenced Tuesday after pleading guilty last month to dangerous control of a child. The charge refers to cases where a parent or guardian permits a child to possess a firearm.The Star Press in Muncie reports she acknowledged to investigators she was aware her son had a firearm, but never discussed the matter with him.The boy had been in trouble related to guns before. He took the weapon to Blackford High School on Oct. 30, resulting in a lockdown and a delay in dismissal of students.The Associated Press isn't identifying the woman to avoid identifying her son.AdvertisementSupported byBy The New York Times• New Zealand grappled with grief and horror on Sunday, two days after a gunman opened fire at two mosques in the city of Christchurch, killing at least 50 people. The terrorist attack appeared to have been carried out by a white nationalist who posted a racist manifesto online and streamed live video of the killings on Facebook.• Prime Minister Jacinda Ardern said on Sunday that the suspect, an Australian, would be tried in New Zealand, and that her government would discuss gun regulation at a meeting on Monday. “There will be changes to our gun laws,” she said.• Minutes before the shooting began on Friday, Ms. Ardern was emailed a copy of the manifesto purported to be from the gunman, her office said. Many news outlets and lawmakers also received the email.• The family of the suspect, identified in court papers as Brenton Harrison Tarrant, 28, has apologized for the attack. In an interview published online on Sunday by Australia’s 9News, his grandmother said the family was “shattered” and denounced his actions as “unrepairable.”Prime Minister Jacinda Ardern said Sunday that the suspect charged in the Christchurch shootings, an Australian citizen, would be tried in New Zealand.A 28-year-old man from Australia has been charged with murder and appeared Saturday morning in a Christchurch courtroom. Court papers identified him as Brenton Harrison Tarrant.Ms. Ardern said he would face more charges, but she did not say whether terrorism charges were being considered. She said she was seeking advice on whether Mr. Tarrant might be extradited to Australia, but that his trial would take place in New Zealand.“He will certainly face the justice system of New Zealand for the terror attack he has committed here,” she said.There was no other shooter, Ms. Ardern said. She said one person had been taken into custody as a result of evidence collected during the investigation but that there was no evidence he was linked to the attack.Ms. Ardern said that her government would discuss the New Zealand’s gun laws at a meeting on Monday.“There will be changes to our gun laws,” she said at an afternoon news conference.She also said she would look into reports that there had been a surge in gun sales in New Zealand since the attack on Friday.The shooting has vaulted New Zealand into what could be a divisive political battle over gun control in the country, where many people own weapons, with few restrictions. The authorities say the suspect in the assault used five guns he had acquired legally, including two semiautomatic assault weapons.Many Americans can buy a gun in less than an hour. In New Zealand, the process can take weeks or months.Within hours of the Friday killings, the prime minister promised changes to gun laws and said regulations of semiautomatic weapons were “one of the issues.” New Zealand’s attorney general, David Parker, appeared to go beyond that statement at a vigil for the victims on Saturday, indicating that semiautomatic weapons would be banned, but he later backtracked.Mr. Parker told Radio New Zealand that had been trying to reflect Ms. Ardern’s comments that “we need to ban some semiautomatics, perhaps all of them.”“Those decisions have yet to be taken, but the prime minister has signaled that we are going to look at that issue,” Mr. Parker told the broadcaster.Licensed New Zealand gun owners pushed back. The Kiwi Gun Blog, a gun-rights online publication, said that one of the assailant’s goals was “to cause the gun rights of responsible New Zealanders to be attacked.” It said “our prime minister is now capitulating with him.”There is no dispute that acquiring a military-style semiautomatic weapon is relatively easy in New Zealand, where guns are plentiful. According to a 2017 small arms survey, there are more than 1.2 million firearms among the population of 4.6 million.Under New Zealand law, anyone 16 or older may seek a firearms license, and anyone 18 or older who has applied for a firearms license can seek a permit to possess a military-style semiautomatic weapon.In the United States, the National Rifle Association, a leading advocate of gun-owner rights, issued its first statement on the attack, denouncing the killer while saying nothing about the weapons used.“It doesn’t matter if these senseless tragedies occur in the United States or abroad, our deepest sympathies are with the victims and their families,” said Andrew Arulanandam, a spokesman for the group.“This was the act of a monster. To the extent the N.R.A. is ridiculed for extending our deepest sympathies to those impacted by this horrific event, we make no apologies for our thoughts, words or prayers.”In an exclusive interview with Australia’s 9News, the family of the suspect condemned the attack and offered an apology to the families of the victims.“We’re so sorry for the families over there, for the dead and the injured,” Terry Fitzgerald, the suspect’s uncle, said. “We can’t think nothing else. We just want to go home and hide.”The suspect’s grandmother Marie Fitzgerald, 81, said: “We are all gobsmacked. We don’t know what to think.”“The media is saying he’s planned it for a long time,” she added. “So he’s obviously not of sound mind, I don’t think.”According to the 9News’s report, Brenton Harrison Tarrant had traveled to Europe after his father died of cancer 2010. The trips came at a time when Islamic extremism was on the rise, it said.“It was only since he traveled overseas, I think, that that boy has changed,” Ms. Fitzgerald said.They first learned that Mr. Tarrant was the suspect in the massacre while watching television, the report said. At first, the uncle said, they couldn’t believe it. But then they saw his photo.“It’s unrepairable,” Ms. Fitzgerald said.Brenton Harrison Tarrant, the man charged in the Christchurch shootings, was a member of the Bruce Rifle Club in New Zealand, the club confirmed on Sunday.The club is about a 35-minute drive from Dunedin, New Zealand, where Mr. Tarrant lived. In a statement, the club said it had about 100 members, all of whom are licensed to own and use firearms.Mr. Tarrant joined the Bruce Rifle Club last February, Scott Williams, the club’s vice president, said in an interview. He said Mr. Tarrant appeared to already have shooting skills and typically went to the range by himself.The club told the police on Friday that Mr. Tarrant had been a member, and the police visited the club on Sunday, Mr. Williams said. He said he could not say how often Mr. Tarrant went to the club because his attendance records had been turned over to the police.Mr. Williams said he had seen Mr. Tarrant at the club with a bolt-action hunting rifle and an AR-15 semiautomatic rifle but didn’t know where Mr. Tarrant got them. He said he and other members had seen no indication that Mr. Tarrant had violent intent.“He was just normal,” Mr. Williams said. “He was polite. He would help put things away. He would help set up. He worked like a Trojan.”The club has been closed until further notice, Mr. Williams said.In a live video on Facebook on Saturday, a former member of the New Zealand military named Pete Breidahl said he had reported the Bruce Rifle Club to the police years ago after a visit because he had “serious concerns about the mental stability of some of those members.”He also posted an image of a comment dated Nov. 20, 2017, about the club, in which he said that at least half the members would be going home to “their mums basement and onto the internet for a night of heroic talk in gun forums.”Mr. Williams declined to comment on Mr. Breidahl’s Facebook video.The airport in Dunedin, the city where the suspect in the Christchurch shootings had lived, was closed Sunday evening after a “report of a suspicious package on the airfield,” the authorities said.“Police are at the scene and specialist teams have been deployed to determine the nature of the package,” the New Zealand police said in a statement.Earlier Sunday evening, an armed police officer stood watch outside the address in Dunedin that was listed in court documents as the home of Brenton Harrison Tarrant, the suspect. About a five-minute drive from the center of Dunedin, the second-largest city on the South Island of New Zealand, the pale blue-gray house had air-conditioning units, wide rectangular windows with open curtains, a satellite dish sitting at the top of a cement stairway and an overgrown yard. The mailbox bore a sticker reading: “NO JUNK MAIL. Thank you!”Several people who lived nearby said they did not know many of their neighbors and had not met Mr. Tarrant. They described the neighborhood in the Andersons Bay suburb of Dunedin as a mix of rented and owned homes.Carl Tainui, who lives nearby, was out walking Sunday evening and said he was “shocked” that such “total hatred” had allegedly originated so close to his home.Over the weekend, the police had blocked off the road in the Dunedin neighborhood while a bomb squad searched the area. The street was shut down from Friday evening until midday Saturday. By Sunday evening, journalists swarmed the area, knocking on doors and filming outside Mr. Tarrant’s house.Amy Hanson, 28, moved into a house across the street from Mr. Tarrant’s last year.She said that she had seen Mr. Tarrant’s address listed last week on a rental site for $280 a week and that her sister’s boyfriend had planned to view the property last Tuesday. She said the listing had since been removed.“He must have planned to move out, knew he was going to go to jail or die,” she said. “The weirdest thing is, he is my age. He is so young. I just don’t get it.”Thirty-four victims of the shootings remain in Christchurch Hospital, 12 of them in critical condition, officials said on Sunday.A 4-year-old girl also remains in critical condition at a children’s hospital in Auckland, where she was flown after the attack.A Christchurch Hospital spokesman, David Meates, said that on Saturday the hospital treated nine new victims of the Friday attack. They arrived with cuts, embedded glass fragments and injuries to their backs, knees and feet.Mr. Meates said the hospital was running seven operating theaters on Sunday instead of the usual three.“Many of these people need multiple surgeries due to the complex nature of their injuries, and the need to provide a number of shorter surgeries in a phased way so patients have the best chance of recovery,” he said.Ms. Ardern said the list of people killed was still provisional and that the families of victims would receive financial assistance. She said families would receive the bodies of victims starting Sunday evening, with all bodies expected to be returned by Wednesday.[Here’s how to help the victims of the Christchurch shootings.]A live video posted to social media appeared to show the attack at Al Noor Mosque, where 42 people were killed. The clip appeared to have been taken from a camera worn by a gunman.3 The gunman’s video shows him driving away six minutes after the first shot.1 The gunman parked inthe alley next to the mosque,according to the live video.Al NoorMosqueDeans Ave.2 He openedfire at around1:40 p.m.Re-entered mosque and began firingResumed firingoutside the mosqueShot abystanderFirst shot firedParkedExited mosqueGot new gun fromparked carExitedmosqueDroveaway1 min.later234563 The gunman’s video shows him driving away six minutes after the first shot.1 The gunman parked inthe alley next to the mosque,according to the live video.SouthHagleyParkAl NoorMosqueDeans Ave.2 He opened fire ataround 1:40 p.m.Re-enteredmosque andbegan firingResumed firingoutside the mosqueShot abystanderFirst shot firedParkedExited mosqueGot a new gunfrom the parked carLeft mosqueDroveaway1 minute later234563 The gunman’s video shows him driving away six minutes after the first shot.1 The gunman parked inthe alley next to the mosque,according to the live video.Al NoorMosqueDeans Ave.South Hagley Park2 He opened fire ataround 1:40 p.m.Resumed firingoutside the mosqueRe-entered mosqueand began firingShot abystanderFirst shot firedParkedExited mosqueGot a new gunfrom the parked carLeft mosqueDroveaway1 minute later23456By Jin Wu and Allison McCann | Note: Times are local time.The airline Air New Zealand said one of its employees, Lilik Abdul Hamid, had died in the attack on Friday.The company’s chief executive, Christopher Luxon, said in a statement that Mr. Hamid had been an aircraft maintenance engineer with Air New Zealand for 16 years.“He first got to know the team even earlier when he worked with our aircraft engineers in a previous role overseas,” Mr. Luxon said. “The friendships he made at that time led him to apply for a role in Air New Zealand and make the move to Christchurch.”Mr. Hamid is survived by his wife and two children, Mr. Luxon said.Later on Sunday, the company PricewaterhouseCoopers said that one of its employees, Areeb Ahmed, had also been killed.In a Facebook post, the company said it had learned of Mr. Ahmed’s death from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs in Pakistan.“Areeb was a loved and respected member of our PwC family who lived our values every day,” it said. “His smile, warmth, dedication, respect and humor will be deeply missed.”The prime minister also said that Sheryl Sandberg, the chief operating officer of Facebook, had shared her condolences over the shootings, parts of which were live-streamed on the social media platform.On Sunday, Facebook said it had removed 1.5 million videos of the attack that had been posted worldwide, including 1.2 million that were blocked at upload. The company said it was also removing edited versions of the video that did not show graphic content.The police on Sunday said the death toll had risen to 50 as officials discovered another body at the mosque on Deans Avenue, where most of the victims had been killed. Another 50 people were injured.“As of last night we were able to take all of the victims from both of those scenes and in doing so we have located a further victim,” said Mike Bush, New Zealand’s police commissioner.Mr. Bush said a list of victims’ names has been compiled with the help of senior religious leaders and had been shared with family members. He said the list was an informal one, though, and officials would not confirm the names publicly until the bodies had been formally identified.The bodies have not yet been released to the victims’ families, but Mr. Bush said he was conscious that Muslim religious practice requires prompt burial.“We are aware of the cultural and religious needs so we are doing that as quickly and sensitively as possible,” he said.Police officials say it took 36 minutes from when they received the first call about a shooting at a mosque to when the suspect was taken in custody.“That is an incredibly fast response time,” said John Price, commander of the district police. “You have a mobile offender across a large metropolitan city, and I am very happy with the response of our staff.”“I can tell you that within six minutes of police being called, on 111, within six minutes armed police staff were on the scene,” Mike Bush, New Zealand’s police commissioner, said on Sunday. “Within 10 minutes, our armed offenders squad were on the scene, and within 36 minutes, we had that mobile offender in our custody.”Officials said the gunman arrived at a second mosque, where he continued his rampage, seven minutes after leaving the first.The suspect was later arrested in a car, which was carrying improvised explosive devices, by two police officers. Mr. Bush said the officers prevented further deaths.“Those two police officers acted with absolute courage,” Mr. Bush said on Sunday. “I’m so proud of what they’ve done. They have prevented further deaths and risked their lives doing so.”Prime Minister Jacinda Ardern said that nine minutes before the attack, her office was among more than 30 lawmakers and news organizations that received a manifesto purported to be from the gunman. In accordance with protocol, her office forwarded it to parliamentary security within two minutes of receiving it, she said.Had the manifesto provided details that could have been acted on immediately, Ms. Ardern said, her office would have acted on them. She said she had read parts of the manifesto, which she called “deeply disturbing.”Abdul Aziz, 48, was in the Linwood mosque praying with his four sons when he heard gunshots. He immediately knew something was wrong.Rather than running from the sound, he ran toward it and grabbed the first thing he could find — a credit card machine — and flung it at the attacker. He tried to distract the attacker in a move that many fellow worshipers have described as heroic, weaving through cars in the parking lot, attempting to draw the gunman’s attention away from the mosque.Latef Alabi, the acting imam of Linwood, told The Associated Press he believed the death toll would have been far higher at the mosque without Mr. Aziz’s actions.Mr. Aziz said he saw the attacker drop one of his guns and managed to grab it but when he pulled the trigger, the gun was empty. When the gunman went to his car, presumably to grab more ammunition, Mr. Aziz said he threw the gun at the assailant’s windshield, shattering the glass. The assailant sped away.Mr. Aziz remained humble, saying in an interview with The New York Times that anyone in his position would have done the same. “I was prepared to give my life to save another life,” he said.Originally from Kabul, Afghanistan, Mr. Aziz lived in Australia for 27 years after having fled the violence of his home country. He moved to New Zealand a few years ago, describing it as a beautiful country.Reporting was contributed by Charlotte Graham-McLay, Damien Cave and Jamie Tarabay from Christchurch, New Zealand; Emily Steel from Dunedin, New Zealand; and Sarah Mervosh from New York.AdvertisementSupported byBy Reuters(Reuters) - Pittsburgh's city council on Tuesday approved restrictions on the use of some "assault weapons" and ammunition, passing bills introduced following a 2018 synagogue shooting, in a move gun-rights activists vowed to challenge.The all-Democratic council voted 6-3 to restrict the use of certain semi-automatic weapons, such as the Colt AR-15 rifle, which a lone gunman used in the October shooting at the Tree of Life Synagogue which killed 11 people.City residents who already own such guns would be allowed to keep them. The legislation bans certain ammunition and gun accessories. It also lets authorities temporarily take firearms from people judged a risk to themselves or others. Pittsburgh Mayor Bill Peduto, a Democrat, said he would sign the bill into law.Opponents of the legislation said it violated a state law prohibiting municipalities from regulating firearms or ammunition and vowed to sue the city and file criminal complaints against the council and mayor."If you sign between now and COB Thursday, we'll be at Municipal Court to file private criminal complaints," tweeted Val Finnell, a leading critic of the legislation.Councilman Corey O'Connor said Pennsylvania courts were now more open to allowing municipalities have a say on protecting residents. In 1993, the state courts overturned a previous assault weapons ban by the city council. "It's going to be a difficult battle, but we're willing to fight it," O'Connor told reporters after the vote. Seven U.S. states prohibit assault weapons, but Pennsylvania is not among them. Certain U.S. cities and counties in U.S. states with no assault weapon bans have imposed their own restrictions on the firearms.Pittsburgh council members who voted against the legislation said it would be too costly to litigate given Pennsylvania law.Gun control groups like CeaseFirePA praised the legislation as "common-sense gun laws."AdvertisementSupported byBy Adam LiptakWASHINGTON — Purse snatching and pickpocketing can amount to violent felonies for purposes of a federal law, the Supreme Court ruled on Tuesday in a 5-to-4 decision featuring unusual alliances.The case concerned the Armed Career Criminal Act, a federal law that is a kind of three-strikes statute. It requires mandatory 15-year sentences for people convicted of possessing firearms if they have earlier been found guilty of three violent felonies or serious drug charges.Figuring out what qualifies as one of those earlier offenses is not always easy. Tuesday’s decision considered a part of the law that defined violent felonies to include offenses involving the use or threat of physical force. The question in the case was whether minimal force, as in a purse snatching, is enough.In analyzing whether given crimes qualify as violent felonies under the federal law, the Supreme Court does not look to what the defendant actually did. Rather, it considers whether the crime — in this case, robbery under Florida law — covers conduct that does not qualify as a violent felony.The case involved Denard Stokeling, who pleaded guilty to possessing a gun after burglarizing the Tongue & Cheek restaurant in Miami Beach, where he worked. After he was identified based on surveillance video and witness statements, police found a gun in his backpack. He was prosecuted on federal gun charges.Mr. Stokeling had three earlier convictions, and prosecutors invoked the sentencing law to argue he should serve a much longer prison term than the one the gun charge would ordinarily have warranted.Mr. Stokeling objected, saying that one of his convictions, for robbery in Florida state court arising from a snatched necklace, did not amount to a violent felony. That meant, he said, that he should face only a maximum sentence of 10 years rather than a minimum sentence of 15 years.Justice Clarence Thomas, writing for the majority, said Mr. Stokeling’s robbery conviction counted as a violent felony for purposes of the federal law. The Florida law required proof the victim resisted, he wrote, and that was enough.“The force necessary to overcome a victim’s physical resistance is inherently ‘violent,’” Justice Thomas wrote.“This is true because robbery that must overpower a victim’s will — even a feeble or weak-willed victim — necessarily involves a physical confrontation and struggle,” Justice Thomas wrote. “The altercation need not cause pain or injury or even be prolonged; it is the physical contest between the criminal and the victim that is itself ‘capable of causing physical pain or injury.’ ”The quoted phrase came from a 2010 decision, Johnson v. United States, that concluded that convictions under Florida’s battery statute did not qualify as violent felonies for purposes of the federal sentencing law.Justice Stephen G. Breyer, who generally votes with the court’s liberal wing in closely divided cases, joined the majority opinion on Tuesday, as did Justices Samuel A. Alito Jr., Neil M. Gorsuch and Brett M. Kavanaugh.Justice Sonia Sotomayor dissented, saying the majority opinion could not be reconciled with the 2010 decision or the reality of how little force is required to be convicted of robbery under the Florida law.“A pickpocket who attempts to pull free after the victim catches his arm” qualifies, she wrote. “A thief who grabs a bag from a victim’s shoulder also commits Florida robbery, so long as the victim instinctively holds on to the bag’s strap for a moment.”Justice Sotomayor added that locking up such offenders for long periods does not advance public safety. “Under Florida law, ‘robbers’ can be glorified pickpockets, shoplifters and purse snatchers,” she wrote.Chief Justice John G. Roberts Jr. joined the dissent in the case, Stokeling v. United States, No. 17-5554, as did Justices Ruth Bader Ginsburg and Elena Kagan.Had the court ruled for Mr. Stokeling, Justice Thomas wrote, convictions under at least 31 state robbery laws would have become ineligible to serve as qualifying offenses under the federal sentencing law.Justice Sotomayor questioned the accuracy of that statement and said earlier decisions from the court had already substantially narrowed the scope of the sentencing law. “The majority, fearful for the camel, errs in blaming the most recent straw,” she wrote.AdvertisementSupported byBy ReutersDENVER — The Colorado legislature on Monday passed a "red flag" bill that would allow those deemed a threat to have their firearms seized, despite opposition by most of the state’s sheriffs and threats of legal challenges.Both chambers of the Democratic-controlled General Assembly approved the measure, sending it to the desk of Governor Jared Polis, also a Democrat, who has indicated his support for the measure.If signed into law, Colorado would become the 15th state to enact similar legislation, also called Extreme Risk Protection Orders, according to a statement from statehouse Democrats.Under the legislation, a family member or law enforcement officer could petition a judge to seize firearms from a person they think is a threat to themselves or others. The judge could then hold a hearing without the targeted person being present and grant a temporary order for 14 days.After the two-week order, both the petitioner and the gun owner could then try to persuade a judge why the firearms should or should not be returned.About 50 of the state’s 62 elected sheriffs oppose the measure, according to Weld County Sheriff Steve Reams, who told Reuters he would not enforce the law because it could put his deputies at risk if they raid a home without prior notice.'UNCHALLENGED STATEMENTS'The Second Amendment to the U.S. Constitution guarantees citizens the right to keep and bear arms. Opponents say the Colorado measure goes too far because it does not allow for a person to be heard in court before a judge issues a gun removal order.“Unchallenged statements made by a petitioner before a judge ... would be sufficient for law enforcement to enter that person’s home and confiscate their private property,” the National Rifle Association (NRA) said in a statement.One of the proposal’s sponsors, House Rep. Tom Sullivan, said he ran for elected office after his son Alex was killed in a mass shooting at a Colorado movie theater in 2012.“This bill will give law enforcement and families the tools that they need to stop tragedies from constantly happening and save lives," said Sullivan, a Democrat.The board of commissioners in heavily-Republican El Paso County passed a resolution last month vowing to "actively resist" the law, including taking legal action, if it is enacted.AdvertisementSupported byBy ReutersWASHINGTON — A U.S. appeals court on Monday refused to halt President Donald Trump's ban on "bump stocks" - rapid-fire gun attachments used in the deadliest mass shooting in modern U.S. history - in the latest courtroom defeat for firearms rights advocates opposing the policy.The U.S. Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit upheld a lower court ruling that denied a request by opponents of the policy for a preliminary injunction lifting the ban, which took effect last week. The U.S. Supreme Court twice last week, in cases from Michigan and Washington, D.C., rejected stay requests from gun rights advocates.The policy was embraced by Trump in the wake of an October 2017 mass shooting that killed 58 people at a country music festival in Las Vegas. It requires owners to turn in or destroy the attachments. People caught in possession of them could face up to 10 years in prison.The appeals court previously carved out a temporary exception to the ban for members of the Firearms Policy Foundation and other organizations pursuing the legal challenge. In Monday's decision, the court said it would extend that temporary reprieve for two days to allow the plaintiffs to seek a stay from the U.S. Supreme Court."We are reviewing the decision and will be seeking a stay from the Supreme Court, within the time contemplated by the D.C. Circuit," said Erik Jaffe, a lawyer for the plaintiffs.Bump stocks use a gun's recoil to bump its trigger, enabling a semiautomatic weapon to fire hundreds of rounds per minute, which can transform it into a machine gun. The ban is a rare recent instance of gun control at the federal level in a country that has experienced a succession of mass shootings. Those challenging the policy have argued that the U.S. Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives (ATF) lacks the authority to equate bump stocks with machine guns. One of the laws at the center of the legal dispute was written more than 80 years ago, when Congress restricted access to machine guns during the heyday of American gangsters' use of "tommy guns."AdvertisementSupported byBy Sheryl Gay StolbergWASHINGTON — The National Rifle Association, the nation’s largest gun lobby, has settled on its next target on Capitol Hill: blocking Congress from reauthorizing the Violence Against Women Act, a 1994 law that assists victims of domestic and sexual violence.The House is set to vote on the legislation this week; the law expired in February. But the bill includes a new provision — aimed at curbing sexual violence by expanding law enforcement’s ability to strip domestic abusers of their guns — that the N.R.A. does not like. The measure closes the so-called boyfriend loophole by barring those convicted of abusing, assaulting or stalking a dating partner or those subject to a court restraining order from buying or owning firearms.Under current federal law, those convicted of domestic abuse can lose their guns if they are — or were formerly — married to their victim, live with their victim, have a child with their victim or are a parent or guardian of their victim. The proposed provision would extend those who can be convicted of domestic abuse to include stalkers and current or former boyfriends or dating partners.Jennifer Baker, a spokeswoman for the N.R.A., said that for “many of those ‘offenses’ — and I’m using air quotes here — the behavior that would qualify as a stalking offense is often not violent or threatening; it involves no personal contact whatsoever.” She argues that the new provision is “too broad and ripe for abuse.”“Like if you were sending harassing messages to somebody on Facebook, to somebody you never met or somebody you dated five years ago,” she said, adding, “How it’s written right now, you could be convicted for a misdemeanor stalking offense for a tweet that causes someone emotional distress and then you would be prohibited from owning a firearm.”Others find the N.R.A.’s argument far-fetched. “A single tweet or Facebook message, without significant other conduct, would ordinarily not be enough” to result in a conviction for stalking, said David Keck, director of the National Resource Center on Domestic Violence and Firearms, which provides guidance to law enforcement and governments on implementing firearms prohibitions, but takes no position on the new domestic violence act provision.And times have changed for the gun lobby. A wave of freshman Democrats in Congress were elected on a promise to enact new gun restrictions, and they proudly campaigned against the N.R.A.“The No. 1 way that women are being killed with guns is by their beloveds, their boyfriends, their significant others,” said one of those freshman Democrats, Representative Lucy McBath of Georgia. “I am not paying attention to the rhetoric of the N.R.A. because I can’t be distracted. What’s most important is putting forth good legislation to save as many lives as we can.” Ms. McBath’s son, Jordan Davis, was shot to death in 2012.Roughly half of all female homicide victims are killed by what experts call “intimate partners” — meaning current or former spouses or dating partners — according to a 2017 study by the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. And about half of intimate partner homicides involved dating relationships, according to Mr. Keck.The “boyfriend loophole” provision is “a refocus on should we be just looking at domestic partners or should we be looking more broadly at intimate partners?” he said.Studies also show that domestic abusers with guns inflict a disproportionate amount of violence on their partners, and that the victims are overwhelmingly female. Abused women are five times more likely to be killed by their abuser if the abuser owns a firearm, according to the Giffords Law Center to Prevent Gun Violence, a gun safety group. Roughly three-quarters of all intimate partner murder victims were also victims of stalking by their partners, according to the National Center for Victims of Crime.“The share of homicides committed by dating partners has been increasing for three decades,” said Shannon Watts, who founded Moms Demand Action for Gun Sense in America, a group that supports tighter gun laws, in response to the massacre at Sandy Hook Elementary School in Connecticut in 2012. “Women are now as likely to be killed by dating partners as by spouses with guns.”The reauthorization bill has one Republican co-sponsor, Representative Brian Fitzpatrick of Pennsylvania. Representative Kevin McCarthy, the House Republican leader, is urging Congress to extend the expired law for the rest of the year to continue funding services to survivors at current levels. Ms. Baker, of the N.R.A., accused Democrats of “playing politics” with the bill by inserting the so-called boyfriend provision as a “poison pill” so that Democrats can portray Republicans who vote against it as anti-woman.The N.R.A. has decided to “score” the vote on the Violence Against Women Act, meaning it will keep track and publish how lawmakers vote in an effort to either reward or defeat them in the next election. While the move is not likely to keep the bill from passing the House, it does make it more likely that the “boyfriend loophole” provision will be stripped from the act when the measure arrives in the Senate.“Anybody who votes for this should take the outrage of the N.R.A. and wear it proudly,” said Representative Debbie Dingell, Democrat of Michigan, who drafted the provision as a separate bill and fought for it to be included in the Violence Against Women Act.Ms. Dingell — whose husband, John D. Dingell Jr., who died this year, served on the N.R.A.’s board of directors — has spoken powerfully of her experiences as a child, cowering in the closet in fear of her father, who struggled with mental illness and had a gun.“I am not someone who wants to take people’s guns away,” she said. “I have lived with a man that was an N.R.A. board member and with a man that shouldn’t have had a gun. And I want to stand up for both sides.”The move to oppose the act comes as the N.R.A.’s power is increasingly being challenged on Capitol Hill and in statehouses around the country by gun control activists, including many students who have taken up the charge after the massacre last year at Marjory Stoneman Douglas High School in Parkland, Fla.Twenty-six states and the District of Columbia passed 67 new gun safety laws in 2018, according to the Giffords Law Center to Prevent Gun Violence. On Capitol Hill, the House in February passed legislation expanding background checks to cover nearly all gun purchases — the first significant gun safety measure in 25 years.Even in the Republican-controlled Senate, Senator Lindsey Graham, chairman of the Senate Judiciary Committee, convened a hearing last week on “red flag laws” or extreme risk protection orders that allow family members and law enforcement officers to obtain court restraining orders to remove firearms from people who have been identified as a risk to themselves or others.So far, 14 states and the District of Columbia have laws allowing extreme risk protection orders. Mr. Graham said he is working on legislation to create incentives for states to enact such bills. Ms. Baker said the N.R.A. agrees with the idea in theory but has not supported any of the state laws because of “serious due process concerns.”The idea has gained traction in some unlikely places — including the White House, where President Trump embraced it when Vice President Mike Pence raised it during a meeting with lawmakers after the school massacre in Parkland.“Or Mike, take the firearms first and then go to court,” Mr. Trump told Mr. Pence, adding, “because a lot of times, by the time you go to court, it takes so long to go to court to get the due process procedures. I like taking the guns early.”AdvertisementSupported byBy Simon Romero and Timothy WilliamsALBUQUERQUE — New Mexico’s governor is feuding with county sheriffs, accusing them of going “rogue” by refusing to enforce new gun control legislation. Counties in Oregon are passing militia-backed measures against stricter gun laws. Washington State is warning sheriffs they could face legal action if they don’t run enhanced background checks approved by voters.As states have approved dozens of restrictive gun control measures since the shooting at Marjory Stoneman Douglas High School in Parkland, Fla., last year, efforts to resist such laws have gathered strength around the nation as rural gun owners say their rights are being violated.“This is just a gun-grab measure,” Shane Ferrari, the sheriff of San Juan County, said of a provision that requires background checks on most gun sales in New Mexico, signed into law this month by Gov. Michelle Lujan Grisham, a Democrat.Sheriff Ferrari, a Republican, said he believed that the new law was a violation of the Second Amendment and the state’s existing gun laws, and that he would not enforce it unless a court ruling told him to do so. And all but a handful of counties in New Mexico have expressed similar opposition.The impasses — between local sheriffs and elected officials in states now controlled by Democrats — are raising the specter of a constitutional showdown over enforcement of the new gun laws. Some of the gun rights advocates say they are simply drawing inspiration from strategies employed by liberal critics of the Trump administration: They compare their efforts to declare “Second Amendment sanctuary” counties to so-called sanctuary cities opposing the federal government’s immigration crackdown.“Critics are calling these new laws Gestapo-style tactics when that’s the furthest thing from the truth,” said Victor Snover, the mayor of Aztec, a town in San Juan County that was shaken by a school shooting in 2017 in which a former student killed two students and himself.Mr. Snover, a Democrat who is also a teacher at Aztec High School, called the measure “common sense and reasonable.” He added, “But unfortunately we live in a hyperpartisan time when avoiding tragedies isn’t viewed as reasonable.”In New Mexico and elsewhere, the disputes generally reflect tension between cities that support stricter gun laws and rural areas that want to bolster protections for gun owners. The pushback against new laws generally seeks to maintain existing gun ownership rights; most have not yet been challenged in court.The disputes around the country over the gun control measures raise vexing questions about the rule of law. Governors claim that local sheriffs cannot pick which laws to enforce, but some states have already grappled with low compliance with other gun laws.“There’s a real tension on this issue between urban and rural identities that doesn’t necessarily fit nicely into party loyalties,” said Lonna Atkeson, a political-science professor at the University of New Mexico. She noted that some of the counties vehemently opposing the state’s new gun control legislation are solidly Democratic.Elsewhere, dozens of counties in Illinois have approved “gun sanctuary” resolutions meant to signal local discontent with gun control measures approved by the State Legislature, which is dominated by Democrats.Among the measures approved by Illinois last year was one requiring a 72-hour waiting period for all gun purchases and a so-called red flag bill, which allows relatives and law enforcement officials to ask courts to confiscate firearms from people deemed a threat to themselves or others.In Oregon, where the State Legislature is currently debating several gun control measures — including a bill that would forbid the sale of assault rifles to people under 21 — voters in eight counties have approved ordinances stating that residents have the right to own semiautomatic weapons and high-capacity magazines, even if federal and state law bans them.Some of the most public discontent, however, has come in Washington, where a divide between rural and urban areas has become a recurring political split.In November, nearly 60 percent of Washington State voters approved an initiative prohibiting anyone under 21 from purchasing a semiautomatic rifle and requiring buyers to undergo enhanced background checks. (State law already barred those under 21 from buying a handgun.) Long guns that employ manual operations, including pumps and bolts, could still be purchased at age 18.The law also mandated a 10-day waiting period and completion of a firearms training course. The initiative also allowed prosecutors to charge gun owners with crimes if the gun was stored improperly and someone unable to legally own a gun used it to commit a crime.Most of the law is scheduled to take effect July 1, though the Second Amendment Foundation, a nonprofit group based in Washington State that supports gun rights, has filed a lawsuit seeking to block it.Already, though, more than a dozen sheriffs in Washington have said they will refuse to enforce the law.That has set up a showdown between them and Bob Ferguson, the attorney general.Mr. Ferguson has warned the sheriffs that they have a legal responsibility to enforce the new law in the same manner they are sworn to uphold other laws prohibiting criminal activity.“Local law enforcement officials are entitled to their opinions about the constitutionality of any law, but those personal views do not absolve us of our duty to enforce Washington laws and protect the public,” Mr. Ferguson wrote in a letter last month.But Bob Songer, the sheriff of Klickitat County, a rural county in southern Washington, said that the law violated gun owners’ rights.“There is no way in hell I’m going to be going after their guns if they are honest citizens,” he said. “What I’ve told people is: I’m not giving up my guns, and I don’t expect them to give up theirs.”The sheriff dismissed the pressure from the state’s attorney general to abide by the law.“They are not the boss of the sheriff,” he said. “The only bosses I have are the voters of Klickitat County.”Simon Romero reported from Albuquerque and Timothy Williams from New York.AdvertisementSupported byBy Damien Cave and Charlotte Graham-McLayCHRISTCHURCH, New Zealand — Prime Minister Jacinda Ardern of New Zealand on Thursday announced a national ban on all military-style semiautomatic weapons, all high-capacity ammunition magazines and all parts that allow weapons to be modified into the kinds of guns used to kill 50 people at two mosques in Christchurch last week.“What we’re banning today are the things used in last Friday’s attack,” she said, adding: “It’s about all of us, it’s in the national interest and it’s about safety.”Ms. Ardern is expected to encounter little resistance to the weapons ban in Parliament; the largest opposition party quickly said it supported the measures.Ms. Ardern said her goal was to eliminate from New Zealand the weapons that the killer used in Christchurch. She emphasized that it would require a buyback of banned weapons in circulation now, plus regulation around firearms and ammunition.“The guns used in these terrorist attacks had important distinguishing features,” she said at a news conference at Parliament in Wellington, the capital. “First, big capacity, and also their delivery. They had the power to shoot continuously, but they also had large capacity magazines.”Ms. Ardern’s plan for immediate gun policy changes, announced six days after a mass shooting, stands in stark contrast to the stalemate and resistance to change that has stymied similar calls for restrictions on firearms in the United States.Many Americans can buy a gun in less than an hour. In New Zealand, the process can take weeks or months.Ms. Ardern’s handling of the massacre and its aftermath have resonated around the world and thrust her into the spotlight as a force on the issue of guns.The shooting in New Zealand comes after the United States has experienced an alarming number of mass shootings in recent years, including the Sandy Hook, Conn., school shooting that took 27 lives in 2012; the Orlando nightclub shooting in 2016, which killed 49; the Las Vegas concert shooting in 2017 that left 58 dead; and the Parkland, Fla., school shooting, which killed 17 people in 2018.Gun policy experts called Ms. Ardern’s plans to restrict access to certain forms of guns and ammunition far-reaching in scope.“It’s a very bold move,” said Philip Alpers, a University of Sydney academic who runs GunPolicy.org, an international clearinghouse for gun research.[Dozens of victims were buried on Friday as Christchurch residents and visitors shared a Muslim call to prayer.]Chris Cahill, the president of the Police Association, the union representing New Zealand’s police officers, praised Ms. Ardern’s plan, saying that his group had been calling for such measures for years.“This addresses the key concerns we have,” he said. “It’s hitting those military-style semiautomatics. It’s exactly what we wanted.”The overhauls, Ms. Ardern said, are inspired partly by what Australia set in motion after a mass shooting there in 1996: a mix of buybacks, registration and outright bans that severely reduced mass shootings.But experts said there were some key differences.“In Australia, it was a very simple definition, all semiautomatic rifles and shotguns, full stop,” Mr. Alpers said. “Here I can see a few gray areas.”New Zealand’s plan takes aim at capability, not just a particular class of weapons.Gun owners in New Zealand, responding online to the announcement, said it was confusing and began asking which of their weapons would be banned or exempted. Others seemed more resigned to giving up their guns.“Glad I took my ar15 for a walk up the range today,” one commenter wrote, referring to a type of firearm. “We had a blast could be the last time.”The “capability” approach — which is likely to lead to a list of banned items, Mr. Alpers said — could be watered down through furious lobbying. But it could also amount to a new global standard, broad enough to go beyond Australia’s because it could include weapons and accessories not yet developed.That seemed to be Ms. Ardern’s intent.“Today, I’m announcing New Zealand will ban all military-style semiautomatic weapons,” Ms. Ardern said in outlining the changes. “We will also ban all assault rifles. We will ban all high-capacity magazines. We will ban all parts with the ability to convert semiautomatic or any other type of firearm into a military-style semiautomatic weapon.”“We will ban parts that cause a firearm to generate semiautomatic, automatic or close-to-automatic gunfire,” she added. “In short, every semiautomatic weapon used in the terror attack on Friday will be banned in this country.”The weapons, ready amplifiers of rage, allow a few people to kill scores and menace hundreds, and fight head-to-head against modern soldiers and police forces.Mr. Alpers said the challenge for New Zealand would mainly be getting the ammunition and guns that already exist out of circulation. Half of Australia’s states had some kind of gun registration plan in place before the 1996 reforms, making it easier for the authorities to know what weapons were out there and what needed to be brought in.New Zealand only registers 4 percent of its weapons. According to the police, about 250,000 people in the country own an estimated 1.2 million to 1.5 million firearms. It is unclear how many of them would be affected by the ban.“New Zealand is at a considerable disadvantage to countries that have had registries, because there’s no way of tracing the firearms because they don’t know who’s got them,” Mr. Alpers said. “We’re relying entirely on the honesty of the gun owner to turn it in.”Ms. Ardern said that fair compensation would be paid to all those who participate.Noting that there would be some limited exceptions for specific purposes, especially in rural areas, she said she expected the new law to be in place by April 11, the end of Parliament’s next session.In the interim, as of Thursday afternoon, a change in regulations would alter the licensing rules for the weapons that would eventually be banned. To avoid a rush on purchases, weapons that now require a basic A Class license will fall under an E Class gun license, which is already much harder to obtain, and which the prime minister said would now be impossible to get.“I can assure people there is no point in applying for such a permit,” she said.[Read more about the victims of the attack, who spanned generations and nationalities, and their families’ struggle for closure.]The suspect in the shootings, Brenton H. Tarrant, 28, was a licensed gun owner and member of a local gun club. An official with one gun retailer said his company had sold Mr. Tarrant four firearms along with ammunition between December 2017 — a month after Mr. Tarrant received his gun license — and March 2018.But officials still do not know the source of a semiautomatic rifle that can be seen in a video of the attack on Al Noor Mosque, one of the two mosques the gunman targeted. The authorities say that five guns acquired legally, including two semiautomatic assault weapons, were used in the assault.On Wednesday, the authorities said that when the suspect was arrested, he had two weapons with him along with explosives and that he was planning to continue his attack.His efforts were optimized for internet fame and to broadcast a message of white supremacy. Minutes before the attacks started, he published a manifesto to message boards where white supremacists gather, and included a link to the page where the streaming video of the shooting would appear.In addition to gun policy, Ms. Ardern has been arguing nearly every day since the attacks that there is a need for the world’s most powerful tech platforms to take responsibility for spreading messages of hate that lead to violence.Leaders in many countries, she said, need to be united in making clear that with profit comes responsibility.“There are some things we need to confront collectively as leaders internationally,” she said at a news conference in Christchurch on Wednesday. “We cannot, for instance, allow some of the challenges we face with social media to be dealt with on a case-by-case basis.”For now, though, she has made clear that her focus will be on another international industry that her government can regulate immediately — guns.The goal, she said on Thursday, is simple: “to prevent an act of terror from happening in our country ever again.”OpinionNicholas KristofAdvertisementSupported byBy The Associated PressRIO DE JANEIRO — Gun makers and military industry companies from all over the world gathered in Rio de Janeiro for Latin America's largest defense and security fair Tuesday, hoping to benefit from Brazil's new far-right administration and President Jair Bolsonaro's vow to loosen gun laws.Brazil, whose gun market remains mostly closed to foreign firms, was expecting some 450 companies and nearly 200 delegations from 80 countries during the four-day expo, organizers said."This industry is very relevant for our economic growth," Brazilian defense minister Fernando Azevedo e Silva said in his opening speech.Brazil is the world's third-largest gun manufacturer after the United States and China, according to Brazilian think tank Igarape.The current administration has sent positive signals to both domestic and foreign companies. In January, soon after being sworn into office, Bolsonaro signed a decree, making it easier for many Brazilians to buy firearms. His party also plans to put forward new legislation that would loosen restrictions on carrying firearms and the number and type of guns civilians can own.Bolsonaro made public security a centerpiece of his campaign, saying police officers who kill criminals should be decorated, not prosecuted, and promising to overhaul gun laws in the world's murder capital.Rio de Janeiro state Gov. Wilson Witzel adopted a similar stance. In an interview on Sunday Witzel said he had already met one of his flagship campaign promises: using sharpshooters to target criminals seen carrying large firearms.For weapon and ammunition companies this intense focus on public security could represent a significant opportunity. Brazil's state-run Industria de Material Belico do Brasil (IMBEL), linked to the Defense Ministry, says demand shot up 20 percent following the decree."We are seeing various foreign companies, new brands, coming to Brazil," said Marcel Muniz Costa, the firm's head of communications told the Associated Press.Switzerland's defense technology firm Ruag is one of them. "We are very hopeful with this new administration", said Ruag Ammotec's senior vice president, Martin Neujahr. The company has recently decided to make Brazil their new Latin America headquarters.The company believes the market for small calibers and ammunitions in Brazil to be worth $50 million "or more than all other Latin American countries combined," Neujahr said.A representative for a foreign company at the fair, who asked to remain anonymous as to not compromise ongoing negotiation efforts with Brazil, said their prices were four to five time lower than its Brazilian competitors."We're seeing a lot of interest from the police and the army," the representative told The Associated Press.But for this to happen, observers and market participants say Brazil must go further and put an end to the near-monopolies domestic companies have benefited from."National politicians, lobbyists and weapons manufacturers have also benefited handsomely from subsidies and tax breaks. As a result, Taurus, the country's largest firearms maker, has enjoyed a virtual monopoly on the production of handguns and rifles," Robert Muggah, Igarape's research director, said in a statement.A historic tie between domestic companies such as Taurus and the army, who must approve the arrival of any outside competitor in Brazil, has not helped the cause of foreign firms. And while President Bolsonaro is clear on wanting to widen access to guns in the country, he sends a dual message on foreign competition, says Brazilian institute Sou da Paz."He has traditional links with the army, a very nationalistic institution, which protects this idea that the defense industry is strategic", said Felipe Angeli, advocacy coordinator at Sou da Paz.AdvertisementSupported byBy Michael Gold[What you need to know to start the day: Get New York Today in your inbox.]A seemingly offhand remark in a high school lunchroom set off an investigation that uncovered an arsenal of weapons and a plot to attack a Muslim enclave in upstate New York, law enforcement officials said.The comment was made by a 16-year-old student at Greece Odyssey Academy in Greece, N.Y.On Friday, he showed classmates a photo of someone and said that person looked like a potential school shooter, authorities said.The statement alarmed fellow students, who reported it to school officials. The local police became involved and started interviewing people at the school to determine whether there was a potential threat.The threat, it turned out, came from the 16-year-old whose comments had triggered the investigation, authorities said on Tuesday. He and three young adults stockpiled 23 firearms and three homemade bombs as part of a plan to target the secluded Muslim enclave of Islamberg, a rural settlement about 150 miles northwest of New York City, authorities said.The men, Vincent Vetromile, 19, Brian Colaneri, 20, and Andrew Crysel, 18, all from suburban Rochester, were arrested and charged with criminal possession of a weapon and conspiracy, according to court documents.A fourth person was arrested and charged with the same offenses as an adolescent offender, Greece’s police chief, Patrick Phelan, said at a news conference on Tuesday. His name was not revealed because of his age.All four suspects remained in custody as of Wednesday morning. The juvenile suspect is being held on a $1 million bail and is scheduled to return to court next week. The three adults, who are being held on $50,000 cash bails or $100,000 bonds, are scheduled to appear in court next month.No federal terrorism charges have been filed. But Monroe County’s district attorney, Sandra Doorley, said Tuesday that the U.S. attorney’s office is involved in the investigation and that federal charges were possible.It was unclear how all four of those charged were linked or how they initially connected, though at least three of the four were boy scouts, Mr. Phelan said. Two of them, Mr. Vetromile and Mr. Crysel, were eagle scouts.The three adults were also enrolled at Monroe Community College in Rochester at various points in the last two years, a college spokeswoman said. It was not clear whether their enrollment dates overlapped. Mr. Vetromile was last enrolled during the summer term in 2017, Mr. Colaneri in the fall semester of 2017 and Mr. Crysel in the spring of 2018, the spokeswoman said.Mr. Phelan said the four suspects had been planning their attack for about a month. They communicated on Discord, a group chat app created for video gamers that later became popular among far-right activists.Officials only discovered the planned attack through their investigation at the school, Mr. Phelan said.Had students not come forward with their concerns, he said, “people would have died.”As part of the investigation, the police recovered 23 legally owned shotguns and rifles from multiple locations, Mr. Phelan said.Law enforcement officials also found three improvised explosive devices, homemade bombs that appeared to be filled with black powder and nails, Mr. Phelan said. It was unclear whether they were capable of being detonated, he said, but they were sent to an F.B.I. laboratory in Quantico, Va., for further examination.Court documents described the devices as a large cylinder, a medium-sized cylinder and a Mason jar, all wrapped in duct tape.Mr. Phelan said that officials were not yet sure why the four suspects had chosen to target Islamberg, which is more than three hours from Greece by car. But he said that officials were continuing to examine the men’s electronic devices to determine a motive.Islamberg, a rural hamlet in Delaware County, covers at least 60 acres of rolling tree-covered hills, lakes and fields. Reaching it requires driving along country roads that wind through thick woods.The community was settled in the 1980s by followers of a Pakistani cleric, Mubarik Ali Shah Gilani. The initial settlers were predominantly African-American Muslims who left New York City looking for a better place to practice their religion and raise their children. It serves as the headquarters for an organization called Muslims of America, which operates similar communities throughout the United States, according to a 2017 Associated Press story.Over the past several years, Islamberg has been attacked by anti-Muslim groups and some right-wing conspiracy theorists, who have said that the town is actually a terrorist training camp despite its peaceful history.For the past three years, a group called “Bikers United Against Jihad” has organized a motorcycle protest against the community — though the bikers have been outnumbered by counterprotesters.Islamberg has also previously faced threats of violence. In 2015, a man from Tennessee, Robert Doggart, was arrested and charged with plotting an attack on the community. Prosecutors said that he planned to recruit a militia to shoot Islamberg residents and blow up the mosque there. He was convicted and sentenced to nearly 20 years in prison in 2017.In a statement, Muslims of America said the plot caused fear and “sent shock waves” through its community.AdvertisementSupported byBy The Associated PressDENVER — The Democrat-controlled Colorado Legislature sent a "red flag" bill Monday to the governor that calls for taking firearms from people who could pose a threat to themselves or others.Gov. Jared Polis, also a Democrat, has pledged to sign the measure that would place the state among 13 others that have passed such legislation. Florida passed its law after the 2018 Parkland school massacre.The Colorado bill would allow family, household members or law enforcement to petition a court to have guns seized or surrendered. A subsequent court hearing could extend a gun seizure up to 364 days.The bill places the burden of proof on the gun owner to get the firearms back by showing that he or she no longer poses a risk.Republicans repeatedly sought to shift that burden of proof to those seeking the protective order. They argued the legislation offers no due process to gun owners.Republicans also say it violates constitutional rights and could lead to violent confrontations if a judge orders police to confiscate firearms from a resistant owner.Party members defeated similar legislation last year, when they controlled the state Senate.Democrats swept both legislative chambers and retained the governorship in November's elections.The state House voted 38-25 Monday to approve Senate amendments to the bill."This bill will give law enforcement and families the tools that they need to stop tragedies from constantly happening and save lives," said first-term Rep. Tom Sullivan, who sponsored the bill with House Majority Leader Alec Garnett.Sullivan's son, Alex, was killed on his 27th birthday in the 2012 mass shooting at an Aurora theater.Several law enforcement officials testified for the bill, named after Zackari Parrish, a 29-year old sheriff's deputy in Douglas County. The husband and father was shot and killed in a New Year's Eve 2017 shooting by a man who had exhibited increasingly erratic behavior.Opponents say about half of the counties in the state have passed resolutions opposing the bill, symbolically declaring their counties "Second Amendment sanctuaries."Some of the mostly rural counties said they will back sheriffs who do not enforce the measure and will not spend any money to store confiscated guns.State Attorney General Phil Weiser, a Democrat, has said sheriffs who don't want to enforce the measure should resign. Polis, however, said on March 26 that he believes sheriffs are committed to enforcing laws approved at the Capitol. Polis also said sheriffs have discretion to decide which issues to focus on.It's the first major gun legislation to make its way through both Colorado legislative chambers since 2013, when lawmakers passed universal background checks and banned large-capacity ammunition magazines after the mass shootings in Aurora and at Sandy Hook Elementary School in Connecticut.Voters subsequently recalled two Democratic lawmakers for supporting the measures. A third resigned rather than face a recall.AdvertisementSupported byLetter of RecommendationBy Maureen O’ConnorI was at the airport, killing time in a Hudson News with a luxury-travel-magazine feature about Cara Delevingne’s favorite private island, when another magazine caught my eye. In bold type, a cover line blared: “What if Your Ocean Liner Is Hijacked?” This event seemed about as likely to happen to me as a visit to Cara Delevingne’s favorite private island, so I purchased both. As I waited to board, I started flipping through the second magazine, Recoil Offgrid. It’s a sister publication to Recoil, the “firearm lifestyle” magazine, but geared toward the more apocalypse-minded. Whereas most prepper culture skews rural, Offgrid welcomes those who live on the grid — and are utterly terrified about what would happen if the grid turned off.The boat hijacking story was part of “What If?” a recurring feature that is Offgrid’s most addictive: it blends fiction, journalism and alarmingly evocative illustrations to describe the most agonizing ways to die in modern life — and offers expert advice on how to avoid or escape them. Examples include “What if You Were Trapped in a Mass Shooting?” “What if You Have to Deliver a Baby Without Medical Help?” “What if Your Utilities Are Indefinitely Disrupted?” and “What if Your Subway Is Attacked With Chemical Weapons?” Each scenario begins with some fictional mise-en-scиne: “The rhythmic vibrations of the subway car had almost lulled me back to sleep, even though the cabin was crowded with morning commuters,” the chemical-attack story opens. “It was working, until the passengers at the end of the subway car started screaming.” Written in the first- or second-person, this setup imagines the unimaginable, in granular detail.The fictional protagonist always has an identity: In the subway story, “you” are depicted as a bookish intellectual who takes the 7 train to Columbia University for a lecture. (Forgive them for reimagining the 7 train’s route; Offgrid is based in California.) Sometimes the identity is a story unto itself, like in “What if You’re Stranded in the Desert?” Here, “you” are “a portly sales executive in your early 50s named Mark, about to depart on a long road trip back home to Wichita, Kan. You dropped off your daughter, Laura, at her new home for the next four years: New Mexico State University. Despite the tears and laughs, the trip was a success, thanks to your trusted ’90 Ford F-150.” But then your vehicle breaks down on an unmarked road in the middle of nowhere, and your phone’s GPS doesn’t work.Bullet points outline vital information like the season, place and weather. (100 degrees and sunny in New Mexico? Of course your old truck overheated, you fat fool!) And then a panel of experts explains your options for saving yourself. It’s like reading all of the possible endings in a Choose Your Own Adventure novel — while knowing the “adventure” could actually happen, if you choose poorly in real life, or if your luck runs out.The experts who appear in “What If?” are paramedics, firefighters, a guy who trains Navy SEALs and the occasional lawyer for ominous consultation on self-defense laws. Their professional advice would seem to offer an antidote to the anxieties “What If?” stirs up. But like all great literary works, “What If?” resists simple resolution: The panelists rarely agree on what you must, or must not, do to survive. In the advice portion of the ocean-liner story, a former cop recommends “establishing an operable militia of ship patrons.” But a professional survivalist argues that resistance would be futile in your average hijacked-by-ISIS-backed-pirates scenario: “You’re not going to go up against an AK-47-wielding attacker with a rolled-up magazine or a butter knife.” Smarter to barricade yourself in your room with a satellite telephone and call the State Department.Among the contradictions, there is a more abstract form of comfort — a tacit acknowledgment that, though we may struggle mightily to influence fate, we can never entirely predict or control it. Offgrid’s “What If?” does for disaster what Penthouse letters do for sex: It vividly describes events that its readers may have contemplated, or even obsessed over, but lack the imagination or information to really bring to life. (What nuclear war and three-way sex have in common: public interest vastly outpaces real-world probability.)But amid this chaos, “What If?” also provides small points of stability. Chlorine gas, I learned, is heavier than air. In the event of a chlorine attack, you should not crawl on the floor, as you might in a fire, but stand and seek higher ground. If you come across a rattlesnake while you are trapped in the desert, hold still — rattlesnakes track movement with ground vibrations.AdvertisementSupported byBy Emily SteelDUNEDIN, New Zealand — The gun enthusiast with light brown hair and an Australian accent did not stand out among the 100 or so members of the Bruce Rifle Club, who practiced shooting at a range in a forest in southern New Zealand.He favored a bolt-action hunting rifle and an AR-15 semiautomatic rifle and would participate in shooting competitions. No one saw any warning signs.“He was polite,” said Scott Williams, the club’s vice president. “He would help put things away. He would help set up. He worked like a Trojan.”But now New Zealand officials are wondering if anyone might have missed something about Brenton Harrison Tarrant, the 28-year-old suspect in the shootings at two mosques in Christchurch on Friday that left at least 50 people dead.On Monday, Prime Minister Jacinda Ardern said she had ordered an inquiry into whether government agencies could have prevented the attack.“The purpose of this inquiry is to look at what all relevant agencies knew — or could or should have known — about the individual and his activities, including his access to weapons,” she said at a news conference in Wellington, the capital.She also said her cabinet had agreed “in principle” to an overhaul of the country’s gun laws and was working out the details.“Within 10 days of this horrific act of terrorism, we will have announced reforms that I believe will have made our community safer,” Ms. Ardern said.Earlier, Wally Haumaha, the deputy New Zealand police commissioner, said identification specialists had worked through the night to identify the people killed at the Al Noor and Linwood mosques so that their bodies could be returned to their families. Islamic leaders and victims’ relatives have been discussing whether to hold a burial for all 50 victims at once, possibly on Wednesday.As of Monday night, 31 people were hospitalized in Christchurch, nine of them in critical condition. A 4-year-old was in critical condition at a hospital in Auckland, where she was flown after the attack.Police investigations continued, as counterterrorism officers in Australia searched the homes of Mr. Tarrant’s mother and sister in the northeastern coastal towns of Lawrence and Sandy Beach.And in New Zealand, more than half a dozen police officers searched Mr. Tarrant’s residence near the center of Dunedin, about 220 miles south of Christchurch. The blue-gray house had air-conditioning units, wide, rectangular windows with open curtains, an overgrown yard and a mailbox with a sticker reading: “NO JUNK MAIL. Thank you!”Two weeks before the attack, Mr. Tarrant’s one-bedroom, one-bathroom home was listed online as available for rent starting April 2, according to a cached version of the post that has since expired.[Read about the challenges of reporting on a shooting that was set up like “an internet performance.”] President Recep Tayyip Erdogan of Turkey said Monday that Mr. Tarrant made two trips to the country in 2016, one for three days and the other for 43 days. Turkish officials said they were investigating what he did there.Few details have emerged about Mr. Tarrant’s life. It is unclear whether he had a job. Several neighbors said they did not know many of their neighbors and had not met Mr. Tarrant.Anytime Fitness confirmed in a statement on Monday that Mr. Tarrant was a member of the Dunedin branch of the 24-hour gym. On Sunday, several regulars at the gym said they did not know Mr. Tarrant or recall seeing him there.What is known is that Mr. Tarrant was a licensed gun owner and member of the Bruce Rifle Club. He appeared to already have shooting skills when he joined in February 2018 and he typically went to the range by himself, said Mr. Williams, the club’s vice president.The club has come under criticism from a former member of the New Zealand military named Pete Breidahl, who said he reported it to the police in 2017 after visiting in November that year. He said he had had concerns about the mental stability of the members and the way they handled firearms.“They wore camo around the range, like they were living some military base fantasy,” Mr. Breidahl said in an interview on Monday.Mr. Breidahl said that he had been in contact with the police after the Christchurch shootings and that he was scheduled to meet with them on Tuesday.Many Americans can buy a gun in less than an hour. In New Zealand, the process can take weeks or months.Mr. Williams said that the Bruce Rifle Club was cooperating with the police investigation and that it was closed until further notice.By the time Mr. Tarrant joined the club, he had already started buying firearms from Gun City, one of New Zealand’s largest gun retailers. David Tipple, the managing director, said his company had sold Mr. Tarrant four firearms along with ammunition between December 2017 — a month after Mr. Tarrant received his gun license — and March 2018.Mr. Tipple said Mr. Tarrant’s online purchases had not raised any red flags.“He was a brand-new purchaser, with a brand-new license,” he said.Darren Jacobs, chief executive of Hunting & Fishing New Zealand, confirmed on Monday that the retailer’s Dunedin branch had sold Mr. Tarrant a bolt-action hunting rifle in 2017.Still a mystery is the source of a semiautomatic rifle that can be seen in a video of the attack on Al Noor Mosque. Mr. Tipple said it did not come from Gun City.The details of Mr. Tarrant’s arsenal emerged as New Zealand considers tightening its gun regulations. Among the legislative changes the prime minister is likely to consider are a ban on semiautomatic weapons and laws requiring that all firearms be registered and all gun sales recorded.Mr. Tipple said that New Zealand should avoid “emotional responses” in the debate over gun laws.“This man wrote in his manifesto that the purpose of using a firearm was to divide us,” Mr. Tipple said. “If we allow him to make changes in our ideology and in our behavior, he’s won.”Others disagreed. Outside the Dunedin branch of Gun City on Monday, Karen Nielsen, 47, stood holding a white poster board with black capital letters reading, “This store sells weapons of mass destruction.” She had a solemn expression on her face as she described how the “horrific, horrific events” in Christchurch had inspired her to protest that morning after she drove her children to school.Ms. Nielsen said that as a former hunter, she was not opposed to guns. Her husband used to be a member of the Bruce Rifle Club like Mr. Tarrant.“There’s nothing wrong with single-bolt firearm rifles,” she said. “It’s the semiautomatics that we need to get rid of. If you can’t kill an animal with one shot, you shouldn’t be hunting.”As she was speaking, Brett Cleveland left the store holding a bag with ammunition that he had just purchased. Mr. Cleveland listened calmly, then said that he owned an AR-15 and was also a member of the Bruce Rifle Club.“As far as I am aware, there is only one rifle club in this area,” Mr. Cleveland said. “He had to go there. It wasn’t like he joined up because he went, ‘There is a bunch of like-minded people.’”He said he hoped that government officials would find a way to compromise.“The knee-jerk reaction is going to be the gun people aren’t going to want any changes,” Mr. Cleveland said. “The other people are going to want a ban on everything. There is never any common sense. The middle is usually the best place to be.”Trade Me, New Zealand’s biggest online marketplace, said on Monday that it had removed all semiautomatic firearms and related parts from its site in response to customer concerns.Also on Monday, a teenager charged with creating and distributing objectionable materials made his first appearance in a Christchurch court. Prosecutors say the 18-year-old, whose name and identifying details have been suppressed, published a photo of Al Noor Mosque with the message “Target acquired” a week before the shootings. He did not enter a plea and was remanded into custody until his next court appearance in April.The police said that they did not believe he was involved in the attack.Damien Cave and Charlotte Graham-McLay contributed reporting from Christchurch, New Zealand.Want more coverage from Australia and New Zealand? Sign up for the weekly Australia Letter, start your day with your local Morning Briefing and join us in our Facebook group.AdvertisementSupported byBy The Associated PressPITTSBURGH — The Pittsburgh City Council gave tentative approval Wednesday to gun-control legislation introduced in the wake of the 2018 synagogue massacre, an effort certain to be challenged in court by Second Amendment advocates who point out that state law doesn't generally allow municipalities to regulate firearms.The legislation would place restrictions on military-style assault weapons like the AR-15 rifle that authorities say was used in the Oct. 27 rampage at Tree of Life Synagogue that killed 11 and wounded seven. It would also ban most uses of armor-piercing ammunition and high-capacity magazines, and would allow the temporary seizure of guns from people who are determined to be a danger to themselves or others.The overwhelmingly Democratic council voted 6-3 to approve the bills, with a final vote scheduled for April 2. Council members who voted against the legislation called it a waste of time and money, given the uncertainty over whether it would ever go into effect. Supporters said it was worth the effort."It is the right fight to have and it is the right time to have this fight," said Democratic Councilman Corey O'Connor, a co-sponsor.The three-bill package — proposed not long after the deadliest attack on Jews in U.S. history — was watered down last week in an effort to make it more likely to survive a court challenge.State law has long prohibited municipalities from regulating the ownership or possession of guns or ammunition. While one of the Pittsburgh bills originally included an outright ban on assault weapons, the revised measure bars the "use" of assault weapons in public places. A full ban on possession would only take effect if state lawmakers or the state Supreme Court give municipalities the right to regulate guns — which even the bill's boosters say is an unlikely prospect in a largely rural state where legislative majorities have been fiercely protective of gun rights."We are never going to enforce these laws," said Democratic Councilwoman Theresa Kail-Smith, who voted no. "It's a nice symbol."Councilman Anthony Coghill, a fellow Democrat who also voted no, called the legislation a "distraction" and said he'd have a tough time facing his constituents if the city spends a fortune on lawyers. Supporters said some of the anticipated legal defense work would be done pro bono.Pro-gun advocates cast the amended legislation as an attack on the right to bear arms and said they will immediately file suit if the City Council passes the bills into law next week."All of it's illegal. Pennsylvania preemption law says that no municipality, period, may in any manner regulate. And that's at the heart of what they're doing," said Kim Stolfer, president and co-founder of Firearms Owners Against Crime.Allegheny County District Attorney Stephen Zappala Jr., a Democrat, told city council members in January that while he understood their desire to curtail gun violence, their proposed remedies were unconstitutional. A spokesman said Zappala had not seen the revised legislation, and declined comment on its merits.Pittsburgh and its larger counterpart to the east, Philadelphia, have tried before to enact gun legislation, with mixed results.Both cities passed assault-weapons bans in 1993. The state Legislature quickly took action to invalidate the measures, and the Pennsylvania Supreme Court ruled that city officials had overstepped.Philadelphia tried again in 2008, enacting limits on gun purchases and another ban on assault weapons. The state Supreme Court threw out both ordinances, but ruled the city could enforce three other measures: one that requires people to report lost or stolen firearms; another that empowers police to seize guns from people posing a risk to themselves or others; and a third that bans gun ownership for anyone subject to a protection-from-abuse order.Pittsburgh has had its own lost-and-stolen law for more than a decade, but it's never been enforced. Tim McNulty, a spokesman for Democratic Mayor Bill Peduto, said the city is reconsidering that stance in the wake of the synagogue massacre and a recent announcement by Philadelphia District Attorney Larry Krasner that he intended to begin enforcing that city's lost-and-stolen ordinance.Peduto, who has long advocated for stricter gun laws, has thrown his weight behind the new legislation."Pittsburgh owes it to those murdered at Tree of Life and countless others living in fear of gun violence every day in city neighborhoods to take this cause on," McNulty said.Second Amendment attorney Joshua Prince, who represents Stolfer's pro-gun group and has won a string of victories against Pennsylvania municipalities that enacted gun measures, called the latest Pittsburgh effort to restrict firearms "political grandstanding" and predicted it will fail.AdvertisementSupported byBy Damien CaveCHRISTCHURCH, New Zealand — When the prime minister announced plans to ban semiautomatic rifles following Friday’s mass shootings, it seemed to be the bold response that many New Zealanders wanted — until the country’s attorney general backpedaled almost immediately and said that might not be the government’s final decision.Even after a massacre that left 50 people dead, the fight over guns and safety will be a fraught one for politicians in peaceful New Zealand, just as it is in the United States.But there is a crucial difference between the two countries that is already apparent: While Washington struggles to take action even as such shootings become more routine, New Zealand’s government is immediately diving into a detailed discussion of further legislative checks on guns.The outright prohibition of semiautomatic weapons proposed by Prime Minister Jacinda Ardern may no longer be on the near-term table. But she’s made clear that lawmakers will look at a range of options, from gun buybacks to restrictions on magazines for semiautomatic rifles.“New Zealand has to have this debate,” said Alexander Gillespie, a law professor at the University of Waikato, who once predicted that the country’s approach to firearms would lead to more mass shootings. “This is a place where your car has to be registered, your dog has to be registered. But your gun doesn’t.”[New Zealand will open an inquiry on what was known about the gunman before the massacre.]New Zealand’s relationship to firearms amounts to a sliding scale of restrictions. Gun owners need a license, but the most commonly used guns, like hunting rifles, are never registered and can be easily bought and sold in large quantities. Handguns and semiautomatic weapons are more closely tracked, requiring a permit for each purchase and a separate license — making it harder but not impossible to amass an arsenal.The mix of freedom and regulation reflects the country’s frontier history, according to experts, who note that New Zealand’s link to weaponry bears a resemblance to the United States, Australia and Canada, but with a few important distinctions.Many Americans can buy a gun in less than an hour. In New Zealand, the process can take weeks or months.There is no right to own a gun here, as there is in the United States; rather, it is considered a privilege with responsibility.The gun culture that has developed tends to be organized, careful and not particularly widespread. Of the 3.9 million New Zealanders of gun-licensing age, 238,000 — 6 percent — have a firearm license, according to GunPolicy.org.In the United States, according to a Pew study from 2017, three out of 10 Americans report owning at least one firearm.New Zealand has also been comfortable with the idea of restricting access to certain weapons for almost as long as the country has existed. In 1845, colonial leaders tried to stop the flow of muskets into tribal areas.After a mass shooting in 1990, when a man killed 13 people, including two 6-year-olds, after a dispute with his neighbor in the seaside town of Aramoana, New Zealand’s Parliament added additional license requirements for semiautomatic weapons and handguns.“On the whole New Zealand doesn’t prohibit firearms,” Mr. Gillespie said. “New Zealand reacts with regulations.”After a handful of failures to push through stronger rules over the past decade, he and others said, the question now is how far the government will try to go to further control guns.Some gun owners argue the laws on the books are enough, and that no amount of additional legislation would have prevented Friday’s massacre.“First of all, this is insanity,” said Mike Loder, a contributor to Kiwi Gun Blog. “We know why he did it. He did it in revenge for a Muslim killing people with a truck. It wasn’t about guns.” Mr. Loder was referring to the shooter’s own widely reported account of his radicalization.But compared with those in the United States, conversations about guns tend to be calmer and less ideological in New Zealand. Many New Zealanders seem eager to find some middle ground, with the latest round of arguments over the country’s gun laws inevitably being shaped by countervailing forces.On the one hand, with its current gun laws, New Zealand had one of the lowest murder rates in the world, as of a week ago. But the horrific bloodshed at the two mosques has clearly shaken what had been the country’s prevailing sense of safety.“We’ve lived in a utopia, but the world’s caught up with us,” said Chris Cahill, head of the Police Association, a union of police officers. “Our innocence is gone.”A shift may already be rippling through the country.On Sunday morning, Raymond Healey, 49, a member of the Christchurch Pistol Club, arrived at a local shooting range, hoping to get some time firing at targets. He was greeted with a white sign, painted in red capital letters: “range closed.”Wearing olive green fleece, khaki pants and untied boots, Mr. Healey said he wasn’t surprised given news of the shootings. He said the gun backlash was also to be expected.“I can understand why people would want more restrictions,” he said.He added that he’d be willing to consider changes. “There are always improvements that could be made to the law,” Mr. Healey said. “There probably are loopholes.”One of the main ones, experts say, involves how easy it is to turn a legal semiautomatic weapon into an illegal killing machine with magazines of ammunition that go beyond what is allowed.Under New Zealand law, the most common A license allows for the purchase of a semiautomatic rifle with a magazine containing seven bullets. An E license is needed for semiautomatics with larger magazines, and it can only be obtained through a more elaborate process of interviews and references.But there are no restrictions on the purchase of magazines.“Anybody can buy them without a license,” Mr. Healey said. “I thought for a long time you shouldn’t be able to do that.”On Saturday, the police said the gunman had modified a “category A firearm,” suggesting that he purchased a semiautomatic with the basic license then added magazines with illegal levels of firepower.Ross Mason, the chairman of the National Rifle Association of New Zealand, which is not connected to the American N.R.A., also said the purchase of magazines raised issues.But he cautioned against a wider ban on semiautomatic rifles in general.“The reason they became available here is because we were trying to eliminate deer from our forest and bush and other four-legged pests, so there was a lot of shooting of these animals from helicopters,” Mr. Mason said. “You needed to have something to fire shots very quickly.”Out of concern that gun sales might be significantly restricted, Radio New Zealand reported that there was a rush on gun stores this weekend, with people “panic buying” weapons.Prime Minister Ardern seems to be listening, at least for now, to all sides in the debate.She also seems determined to do what the United States Congress has not, which is to act.“Our gun laws will change — now is the time,” Ms. Ardern said Saturday. “People will be seeking change, and I am committed to that.”Reporting was contributed by Emily Steel, Charlotte Graham-McLay and Jamie Tarabay from Christchurch; and Danny Hakim from New York.Want more coverage from Australia and New Zealand? Sign up for the weekly Australia Letter, start your day with your local Morning Briefing and join us in our Facebook group.AdvertisementSupported byStudent OpinionBy Jeremy EngleNote: Students 13 and older are invited to comment here. Adults should post their comments elsewhere on NYTimes.com.On March 15, a gunman opened fire at two mosques in Christchurch, New Zealand, killing 50 people. The terrorist attack appears to have been carried out by a white nationalist who posted a racist manifesto online and streamed live video of the killings on Facebook.On Thursday, Prime Minister Jacinda Ardern of New Zealand announced a national ban on all military-style semiautomatic weapons. You can watch a one-minute video of her announcement here.The United States passed its own assault weapons ban in 1994, in response to mass shootings that had occurred here, but that ban expired in 2004. Since then, many of the most notorious mass shootings in the United States — including the attacks in Las Vegas; Orlando, Fla.; Newtown, Conn.; Sutherland Springs, Tex.; and Parkland, Fla. — have involved semiautomatic weapons.Should the United States follow New Zealand’s example and ban all military-style semiautomatic weapons in an attempt to prevent future mass shootings? Or would such a ban be unconstitutional or impractical here?In “New Zealand to Ban Military-Style Semiautomatic Guns, Jacinda Ardern Says,” Damien Cave and Charlotte Graham-McLay write:CHRISTCHURCH, New Zealand — Prime Minister Jacinda Ardern of New Zealand on Thursday announced a national ban on all military-style semiautomatic weapons, all high-capacity ammunition magazines and all parts that allow weapons to be modified into the kinds of guns used to kill 50 people at two mosques in Christchurch last week.“What we’re banning today are the things used in last Friday’s attack,” she said, adding: “It’s about all of us, it’s in the national interest and it’s about safety.”Ms. Ardern is expected to encounter little resistance to the weapons ban in Parliament; the largest opposition party quickly said it supported the measures.Ms. Ardern said her goal was to eliminate from New Zealand the weapons that the killer used in Christchurch. She emphasized that it would require a buyback of banned weapons in circulation now, plus regulation around firearms and ammunition.“The guns used in these terrorist attacks had important distinguishing features,” she said at a news conference at Parliament in Wellington, the capital. “First, big capacity, and also their delivery. They had the power to shoot continuously, but they also had large capacity magazines.”Ms. Ardern’s plan for immediate gun policy changes, announced six days after a mass shooting, stands in stark contrast to the stalemate and resistance to change that has stymied similar calls for restrictions on firearms in the United States.Many Americans can buy a gun in less than an hour. In New Zealand, the process can take weeks or months.Ms. Ardern’s handling of the massacre and its aftermath have resonated around the world and thrust her into the spotlight as a force on the issue of guns.The shooting in New Zealand comes after the United States has experienced an alarming number of mass shootings in recent years, including the Sandy Hook, Conn., school shooting that took 27 lives in 2012; the Orlando nightclub shooting in 2016, which killed 49; the Las Vegas concert shooting in 2017 that left 58 dead; and the Parkland, Fla., school shooting, which killed 17 people in 2018.Ms. Ardern’s overhauls have been inspired in part by neighboring Australia’s response after a mass shooting in 1996. The article continues:Mr. Alpers said the challenge for New Zealand would mainly be getting the ammunition and guns that already exist out of circulation. Half of Australia’s states had some kind of gun registration plan in place before the 1996 reforms, making it easier for the authorities to know what weapons were out there and what needed to be brought in.New Zealand only registers 4 percent of its weapons. According to the police, about 250,000 people in the country own an estimated 1.2 million to 1.5 million firearms. It is unclear how many of them would be affected by the ban.“New Zealand is at a considerable disadvantage to countries that have had registries, because there’s no way of tracing the firearms because they don’t know who’s got them,” Mr. Alpers said. “We’re relying entirely on the honesty of the gun owner to turn it in.”Ms. Ardern said that fair compensation would be paid to all those who participate.Students, read the entire article, then tell us:— What is your reaction to Prime Minister Ardern’s decision to ban semiautomatic weapons and high-capacity ammunition magazines? Should the United States do the same? If not, how should our country address the issue of guns and mass shootings?— In a related Opinion column, Nicholas Kristof writes:When a terrorist massacred 50 people at two New Zealand mosques last week, Prime Minister Jacinda Ardern immediately grasped the nettle. “I can tell you one thing right now,” she told a news conference. “Our gun laws will change.”That’s what effective leadership looks like. New Zealand’s cabinet has now agreed in principle to overhaul those laws, experts are reviewing ways to make the country safer from firearms and, Ardern promised, “within 10 days of this horrific act of terrorism, we will have announced reforms.”Contrast that with the United States, where just since 1970, more Americans have died from guns (1.45 million, including murders, suicides and accidents) than died in all the wars in American history (1.4 million). More Americans die from guns every 10 weeks than died in the entire Afghanistan and Iraq wars combined, yet we still don’t have gun safety rules as rigorous as New Zealand’s even before the mosques were attacked.Do you agree with Mr. Kristof? Has America lacked leadership on the issue of gun violence? How would you assess the quality of leadership by elected officials in the United States?— New Zealand has a population of 4.6 million and an estimated 1.2 million to 1.5 million firearms. The United States has a population of 327 million people and over 300 million guns. In what ways do you think New Zealand’s weapons ban is relevant to the situation in the United States? Do you think the ban represents a realistic model of legislation that could happen here? Or are there too many obstacles or logistical issues that would make such a ban more difficult to enact?— Additionally, the United States has an explicit amendment protecting gun rights that New Zealand does not. The Second Amendment to the Constitution reads:A well regulated Militia, being necessary to the security of a free State, the right of the people to keep and bear Arms, shall not be infringed.However, the Library of Congress writes, “The meaning of this sentence is not self-evident, and has given rise to much commentary but relatively few Supreme Court decisions.” What do you think these words mean? What relevance should they have for the debate about guns? Do you think a ban on military-style semiautomatic weapons would be constitutional?— In her announcement on Thursday, Ms. Ardern said, “It’s about all of us, it’s in the national interest and it’s about safety.” Do you think it is possible for the government to find a healthy balance between protecting people’s right to own a gun and public safety? Do you believe the government is currently striking the right balance? Why or why not?Other Resources:How to Buy a Gun in 16 CountriesHow Australia, Canada and Other Countries Responded to Mass ShootingsWhat Explains U.S. Mass Shootings? International Comparisons Suggest an Answer6 Stories and Charts to Help You Better Understand Gun Violence in the U.S.From The Learning Network: AdvertisementSupported byBy Julie BosmanAURORA, Ill. — An angry worker who stormed through a suburban Chicago factory shooting his co-workers after being fired was barred from having the handgun he was carrying, the authorities said on Saturday.Gary Martin, 45, who died in a shootout with the police after a rampage on Friday that left five workers dead and at least six other people wounded, had his state weapons permit revoked years ago because of a felony assault conviction, the police in Aurora, Ill., said. Still, they said, Mr. Martin’s gun — a .40-caliber Smith & Wesson handgun with a laser sight — was never taken away.“Some disgruntled person walked in and had access to a firearm that he shouldn’t have had access to,” said Kristen L. Ziman, the chief of police in Aurora, where the shooting took place.[Read more about the shooting here.]Chief Ziman said that the police were trying to determine why Mr. Martin still had a gun, despite having his permit revoked five years ago.According to Illinois gun law, a person must be granted a Firearm Owners Identification card, or FOID, to possess a firearm. At least two million people in the state have the cards.But under the law, the process of removing firearms from people whose cards have been revoked is weak, making it easy for some to keep their weapons with little threat of enforcement or penalty.That appears to have been the case with Mr. Martin, who the police said received a card in January 2014. That March, he applied for a concealed-carry permit, and a background check revealed that he had a felony conviction for aggravated assault in Mississippi from 1995. With that, the Illinois State Police revoked Mr. Martin’s card and mailed him a letter ordering him to relinquish his firearm and card within 48 hours.The statute allows law enforcement agencies to petition the courts to seize weapons if they aren’t turned in, but in many instances, the remaining weapons go unchecked. Experts said that the state rules — without a clear, mandatory enforcement requirement — leave a gaping loophole for those who choose not to give up their guns. In 2016, only about 4,000 of the 11,000 people whose cards were revoked submitted the mandatory reports explaining what they did with their guns, The Chicago Tribune reported in 2017.Sgt. Bill Rowley, a spokesman for the Aurora Police Department, said the police had no record of being notified by the state police that Mr. Martin had not volunteered his firearm as required in 2014. It was unclear whether Mr. Martin, who lived in Aurora at the time of his death, also lived there in 2014.The police on Saturday gave a fuller account of the deadly events inside the Henry Pratt Company warehouse on Friday afternoon, and identified the five workers — all co-workers of Mr. Martin — who were killed.The victims included some of the company’s most experienced workers but also its newest: Josh Pinkard, who was the plant manager of the warehouse, perished in the shooting, as did Trevor Wehner, who was a student at Northern Illinois University and an intern in the company’s human resources department. Mr. Wehner was expected to graduate from college in May. Friday was the first day of his internship, according to officials from Northern Illinois University.“He knew he wanted to work in the H.R. business and was hoping this internship would lead into a full-time job in the future,” said Winter Lane, Mr. Wehner’s girlfriend of more than three years, who grew up with him in the same small town of Serena, in north central Illinois.Everyone there knew Mr. Wehner. He was kind, the most selfless person she had ever met, she said, someone with a big smile and a personality to match. “He always saw the good in everyone,” she said.Also killed, the police said, were Vicente Juarez, a stock room attendant and forklift operator; Clayton Parks, the human resources manager; and Russell Beyer, a mold operator. Officials at Northern Illinois said that Mr. Parks had also graduated from the university, in 2014, and that it was offering counseling help to those in need. (The school, in DeKalb, Ill., was the site of another mass shooting 11 years ago.)Abby Parks, the wife of Clayton Parks, said he was devoted to their son, Axel, who is 8 months old. “The family we created together was Clay’s greatest joy,” she said. “He took his responsibilities as a husband and father very seriously and held those titles above all else.” The couple had been married since 2016.The police first received several 911 calls at 1:24 p.m. on Friday, as frantic callers said there was a shooter at the warehouse. Mr. Martin had been summoned to what the police described as a “termination meeting” at the warehouse where he had worked for at least 15 years. At least two victims were shot at the scene of that meeting.Four minutes later, the police arrived and were confronted by the gunman. Two of the first four officers to arrive were shot and transported to hospitals with injuries that were not life-threatening.According to the police, Mr. Martin then retreated into the 29,000-square-foot building, hiding from officers in a machine shop near the back of the facility. It took about 90 minutes for officers to find, shoot and kill him.Scott Hall, the chief executive of Mueller Water Products, of which the Henry Pratt Company is a subsidiary, said that Friday was “the worst day our company has ever had.”Mr. Martin was being fired on Friday for a “culmination of various workplace rules violations,” he said, declining to describe the violations. The firing came at the end of a “progressive discipline process,” he said.The company conducted a background check upon Mr. Martin’s hiring 15 years ago that did not surface his felony conviction in Mississippi.Before Friday, there was no indication that Mr. Martin was violent. “If we have reason to believe that somebody is going to be violent, we take precautions,” he said. “I can only assume that we did not.”Family members of Mr. Martin arrived at the Aurora police station on Friday afternoon, weeping and hugging one another after officers told them that he was dead.“He was the shooter,” said Tameka Martin, who said she was Mr. Martin’s sister. “He shot officers. If they did shoot him and kill him, they were, I guess, defending themselves.”Ms. Martin said that her brother had told his family that he had lost his job at Henry Pratt. At dinner a few nights ago at their mother’s home, Mr. Martin would barely speak about it. He was “very depressed,” she said.Sarah Mervosh, Julia Jacobs and Richard A. Oppel Jr. contributed reporting from New York, and Doris Burke contributed research from New York.AdvertisementSupported byBy The Associated PressBEIJING — Five people died Monday in a shooting in China's Inner Mongolia region, authorities said.An individual shot and killed five people before being apprehended by police, authorities said in Inner Mongolia's eastern Kailu county.Police did not describe the suspect, provide a motive or say whether anyone else was injured.AdvertisementSupported byBy The Associated PressWELLINGTON, New Zealand — New Zealand lawmakers have voted overwhelmingly in favor of new gun control measures during the first stage of a bill they hope to rush into law by the end of next week.The bill would ban the types of weapons a gunman used to kill 50 people at two mosques last month.Only one lawmaker from the 120 that sit in Parliament voted against the legislation in a bipartisan display of unity. Tuesday's vote was the first of three that lawmakers must pass before the bill becomes law.AdvertisementSupported byBy The New York Times[Click here for the latest updates.]• New Zealand grappled with grief and horror on Sunday as the death toll rose to 50 people two days after a gunman opened fire  at two mosques in the city of Christchurch. The terrorist attack appeared to have been carried out by a white nationalist who posted a racist manifesto online and streamed live video of the killings on Facebook.• A 28-year-old man from Australia was charged with murder and appeared Saturday morning in a Christchurch courtroom. Court papers identified him as Brenton Harrison Tarrant. The New Zealand police said he would face additional charges, and were considering charging him under the country’s Terrorism Suppression Act.• Minutes before the shooting began on Friday, Prime Minister Jacinda Ardern was emailed a copy of the manifesto purported to be from the gunman, her office said. Many news outlets and lawmakers also received the email.• Ms. Ardern promised that New Zealand’s “gun laws will change” and that her cabinet would discuss options for how, though she did not offer specifics. The gunman had five firearms, including two semiautomatic weapons, she said. But the issue could be a divisive one in a country where an extraordinary number of people own weapons, with few restrictions.Thirty-four victims of the shootings remain in Christchurch Hospital, 12 of them in critical condition, officials said Sunday.A 4-year-old girl also remains in critical condition at a children’s hospital in Auckland, where she was flown after the attack.A Christchurch Hospital spokesman, David Meates, said that on Saturday the hospital treated nine new victims of the Friday attack. They arrived with cuts, embedded glass fragments and injuries to their backs, knees and feet.Mr. Meates said the hospital was running seven operating theaters on Sunday instead of the usual three.“Many of these people need multiple surgeries due to the complex nature of their injuries, and the need to provide a number of shorter surgeries in a phased way so patients have the best chance of recovery,” he said.The airline Air New Zealand said one of its employees, Lilik Abdul Hamid, was among those killed.The company’s chief executive, Christopher Luxon, said in a statement that Mr. Hamid had been an aircraft maintenance engineer with Air New Zealand for 16 years.“He first got to know the team even earlier when he worked with our aircraft engineers in a previous role overseas,” Mr. Luxon said. “The friendships he made at that time led him to apply for a role in Air New Zealand and make the move to Christchurch.”Mr. Hamid is survived by his wife and two children, Mr. Luxon said.It was the first public announcement of one of the victim’s names. The police have yet to release a list of those who died.The police said on Sunday that the death toll had risen to 50 as officials discovered another body at the mosque on Deans Avenue, where most of the victims were killed. Another 50 people were injured.“As of last night we were able to take all of the victims from both of those scenes and in doing so we have located a further victim,” said Mike Bush, New Zealand’s police commissioner.Mr. Bush said a list of victims’ names has been compiled with the help of senior religious leaders and had been shared with family members. He said the list was an informal one, though, and that officials would not confirm the names publicly until the bodies had been formally identified.The bodies have not yet been released to the victims’ families, but Mr. Bush said he was conscious that Muslim religious practice requires prompt burial.“We are aware of the cultural and religious needs, so we are doing that as quickly and sensitively as possible,” he said.Police officials say it took 36 minutes from when they received the first call about a shooting at a mosque to when the suspect was taken in custody.“That is an incredibly fast response time,” said John Price, commander of the district police. “You have a mobile offender across a large metropolitan city, and I am very happy with the response of our staff.”During a news briefing on Saturday, officials provided a partial timeline but many details remained unclear. Officials said the gunman arrived at a second mosque, where he continued his rampage, seven minutes after leaving the first.The suspect was later arrested in a car, which was carrying improvised explosive devices, by two police officers. Mike Bush, New Zealand’s police commissioner, said the officers prevented further deaths.“Those two police officers acted with absolute courage,” Mr. Bush said on Sunday. “I’m so proud of what they’ve done. They have prevented further deaths and risked their lives doing so.”The shooting has vaulted New Zealand into what could be a divisive political battle over gun control in the country, where an extraordinary number of people own weapons, with few restrictions. The authorities say the suspect in the assault used five guns he had acquired legally, including two semiautomatic assault weapons.Within hours of the Friday killings, Prime Minister Jacinda Ardern promised changes to New Zealand gun laws and said regulations around semiautomatic weapons was “one of the issues.” New Zealand’s attorney general, David Parker, appeared to go beyond that statement at a vigil for the victims on Saturday, indicating that semiautomatic weapons would be banned, but he later backtracked. Mr. Parker told Radio New Zealand that had been trying to reflect Ms. Ardern’s comments that “we need to ban some semiautomatics, perhaps all of them.”“Those decisions have yet to be taken, but the prime minister has signaled that we are going to look at that issue,” Mr. Parker told the broadcaster.Licensed New Zealand gun owners pushed back. The Kiwi Gun Blog, a gun-rights online publication, said that among the mosque shooter’s goals, one was “to cause the gun rights of responsible New Zealanders to be attacked.” It said “our prime minister is now capitulating with him.”There is no dispute that acquiring a military-style semiautomatic weapon is relatively easy in New Zealand, where guns are plentiful. According to a 2017 small arms survey, there are more than 1.2 million firearms among the population of 4.6 million.Under New Zealand law, anyone 16 or older may seek a firearms license, and anyone 18 or older who has applied for a firearms license can seek a permit to possess a military-style semiautomatic weapon.In the United States, the National Rifle Association, a leading advocate of gun-owner rights, issued its first statement on the attack, denouncing the killer while saying nothing about the weapons used.“It doesn’t matter if these senseless tragedies occur in the United States or abroad, our deepest sympathies are with the victims and their families,” said Andrew Arulanandam, a spokesman for the group. “This was the act of a monster. To the extent the N.R.A. is ridiculed for extending our deepest sympathies to those impacted by this horrific event, we make no apologies for our thoughts, words or prayers.”At times over the years, the N.R.A. has held up New Zealand’s relatively high rate of gun ownership and low crime as proof that gun laws are misguided, but New Zealand’s laws are already more strict than the United States, which also has a higher rate of gun ownership.The N.R.A. has tracked efforts in recent years to further tighten gun laws in New Zealand.Cam Edwards, a host on NRATV, the organization’s online streaming service, blamed social media for the Christchurch massacre.“What’s really changed in our world over the last 20 years isn’t the design of firearms,” he said in a lengthy Twitter thread. “It’s the revolutionary way we have of communicating with strangers, creating online tribes and subcultures that simply didn’t exist in large numbers a generation ago.”Abdul Aziz, 48, was in the Linwood mosque praying with his four sons when he heard gunshots. He immediately knew something was wrong.Rather than running from the sound, he ran toward it and grabbed the first thing he could find — a credit card machine — and flung it at the attacker. He tried to distract the attacker in a move that many fellow worshipers have described as heroic, weaving through cars in the parking lot, attempting to draw the gunman’s attention away from the mosque.Latef Alabi, the acting imam of Linwood, told The Associated Press he believed the death toll would have been far higher at the mosque without Mr. Aziz’s actions.Mr. Aziz said he saw the attacker drop one of his guns and managed to grab it but when he pulled the trigger, the gun was empty. When the gunman went to his car, presumably to grab more ammunition, Mr. Aziz said he threw the gun at the assailant’s windshield, shattering the glass. The assailant sped away.Mr. Aziz remained humble, saying in an interview with The New York Times that anyone in his position would have done the same. “I was prepared to give my life to save another life,” he said.Originally from Kabul, Afghanistan, Mr. Aziz lived in Australia for 27 years after having fled the violence of his home country. He moved to New Zealand a few years ago, describing it as a beautiful country.New Zealand’s police commissioner, Mike Bush, provided new details of the attack on Friday night, saying that 41 people had been killed at Al Noor mosque, in the center of the city, and seven at Linwood mosque, about three miles away. Another victim died at Christchurch Hospital, he said.David Meates, the chief executive of the Canterbury District Health Board, said that 48 people, including young children, were being treated for injuries at the hospital. Mr. Bush said on Saturday morning that two of them were in critical condition.[How to help the victims of the Christchurch shootings.]The police said on Friday that three men and one woman had been taken into custody, but Mr. Bush lowered the total number to three on Saturday morning, indicating that someone had been released.In a Christchurch courtroom that was closed to the public for security reasons, police officers in bulletproof vests brought in Brenton Harrison Tarrant, who has been charged with one count of murder in connection with the massacre. The police said he would face additional charges.Mr. Tarrant, 28, short with thinning brown hair, handcuffed and wearing white prison clothing, looked around the courtroom but said nothing as District Court Judge Paul Kellar ordered him held for a further hearing on April 5.Regional officials have said that Mr. Tarrant is an Australian citizen. Court papers listed his New Zealand address as Dunedin City, which is about 280 miles south of Christchurch.Richard Peters, his court-appointed lawyer, said Mr. Tarrant had indicated he might represent himself. Asked how Mr. Tarrant had reacted to what he is facing, Mr. Peters said, “He seemed to be quite aware of where he is and what he’s doing.”At the same time the charging document for Mr. Tarrant was handed out to reporters, a second court filing was distributed that said Daniel John Burrough, 18, of Christchurch, had been charged with “intent to excite hostility or ill-will.” Court officials would not elaborate on how the two cases were related, if at all.In addition to Mr. Tarrant, three other people were arrested in connection with the attacks, although one was apparently released. Few details have been offered about them.Prime Minister Jacinda Ardern was among dozens of lawmakers and media who were emailed a white nationalist manifesto purportedly from the gunman minutes before the shootings began on Friday, her office said.Andrew Campbell, a spokesman for Ms. Ardern, said a generic email address for the prime minister was among about 70 to which the email was sent. The “vast majority” of the recipients were news outlets, and others were lawmakers, he said on Saturday.Mr. Campbell said he believed the document was the same one that has been circulating online since the attacks. He said action was taken “almost immediately” according to protocol, “by sending it to parliamentary security, who then would pass it on the police.” He did not specify whether the email had been seen or forwarded before the shooting began.On Saturday, Ms. Ardern said that the suspect held a gun license in New Zealand and that, according to what she had been told, he “was able to legally acquire the guns that he held.”He had five firearms, including two semiautomatic weapons, she said.“That will give you an indication of why we need to change our gun laws,” she said at a news conference. “Our gun laws will change — now is the time.”But Ms. Ardern did not offer specifics about how the laws might change, saying only that her cabinet would discuss the issue. Attorney General David Parker, who had appeared to tell a crowd that New Zealand would ban semiautomatic weapons, told Radio New Zealand that regulation of the guns was “one of the issues” to be considered.“Those decisions have yet to be taken but the prime minister has signaled that we are going to look at that issue,” he said.While New Zealand’s laws governing the purchase of semiautomatic firearms are more restrictive than those in the United States, the country is much freer with firearms than Australia is, allowing most guns to be purchased without requiring them to be tracked.“New Zealand is almost alone with the United States in not registering 96 percent of its firearms — and those are its most common firearms, the ones most used in crimes,” said Philip Alpers of GunPolicy.org, a clearinghouse for gun law data worldwide. “There are huge gaps in New Zealand law, even if some of its laws are strong.”Many of the people killed in the attacks were the breadwinners in their families, Ms. Ardern said after meeting with victims’ relatives on Saturday.The victims were “predominantly from the ages of 20 to 60ish — and a large number of men,” Ms. Ardern told reporters at Hagley College, a school near the hospital where family members were gathering.Ms. Ardern said a government compensation system would help families left without income. In the meantime, mosques will continue to receive police protection, she said.A 17-minute video that was streamed live on Facebook shows part of the attack.The clip, which appeared to have been taken from a helmet camera worn by the gunman, begins behind the wheel of a car. A man, whose face can occasionally be seen in the rearview mirror, drives through the streets of Christchurch before pulling up in front of Al Noor mosque, beside the sprawling Hagley Park.[Read more about the suspect, who seems to have been performing for, and inspired by, social media.]A live video posted to social media appeared to show the attack at Al Noor Mosque, where 42 people were killed. The clip appeared to have been taken from a camera worn by a gunman.3 The gunman’s video shows him driving away six minutes after the first shot.1 The gunman parked inthe alley next to the mosque,according to the live video.Al NoorMosqueDeans Ave.2 He openedfire at around1:40 p.m.Re-entered mosque and began firingResumed firingoutside the mosqueShot abystanderFirst shot firedParkedExited mosqueGot new gun fromparked carExitedmosqueDroveaway1 min.later234563 The gunman’s video shows him driving away six minutes after the first shot.1 The gunman parked inthe alley next to the mosque,according to the live video.SouthHagleyParkAl NoorMosqueDeans Ave.2 He opened fire ataround 1:40 p.m.Re-enteredmosque andbegan firingResumed firingoutside the mosqueShot abystanderFirst shot firedParkedExited mosqueGot a new gunfrom the parked carLeft mosqueDroveaway1 minute later234563 The gunman’s video shows him driving away six minutes after the first shot.1 The gunman parked inthe alley next to the mosque,according to the live video.Al NoorMosqueDeans Ave.South Hagley Park2 He opened fire ataround 1:40 p.m.Resumed firingoutside the mosqueRe-entered mosqueand began firingShot abystanderFirst shot firedParkedExited mosqueGot a new gunfrom the parked carLeft mosqueDroveaway1 minute later23456By Jin Wu and Allison McCann | Note: Times are local time.He approaches the mosque on foot, his weapon visible, and begins shooting at people at the entrance. What follows is nearly two harrowing minutes of his firing on worshipers.At one point, the gunman exits the mosque and fires in both directions down the sidewalk before returning to his car for another gun — which, like the others, was inscribed with numbers, symbols or messages. When he re-enters the mosque, he shoots several bodies at close range.After another few minutes, he returns to his vehicle and drives away.“There wasn’t even time to aim, there was so many targets,” he says at one point, as the sirens of an emergency response vehicle blare in the background.An earlier version of this article misstated a function of the International Civil Aviation Organization. While it does manage the International Convention on Civil Aviation, the agency does not have power to impose sanctions, which first must be proposed, agreed to and set in motion by sovereign states.Reporting was contributed by Charlotte Graham-McLay, Damien Cave and Jamie Tarabay from Christchurch, New Zealand; Megan Specia, Jason Bailey, Rick Gladstone and Danny Hakim from New York; Daniel Victor and Tiffany May from Hong Kong; Alan Yuhas from London; Jacqueline Williams from Sydney and Isabella Kwai from Grafton, Australia; Sheera Frenkel from San Francisco; and Jonathan Weisman from Washington.AdvertisementSupported byBy The Associated PressLAS VEGAS — Democratic presidential candidate Beto O'Rourke said Sunday that his personal use and ownership of firearms taught him the responsibility of having guns and can help bridge politically fraught discussions about gun control in the U.S.The former Texas congressman told The Associated Press in an interview Sunday in Las Vegas that he inherited guns belonging to his great uncle, who had taught him how to shoot and handle a firearm responsibly. He says he and his wife, Amy, who grew up on a New Mexico ranch and used guns, made sure their children also knew how to safely handle guns."Not only are they proficient, they also understand the responsibility that comes with using or owning a firearm," he said.O'Rourke, speaking at a coffee shop 5 miles (8 kilometers) away from the site of a 2017 mass shooting on the Las Vegas Strip, said he'd like to use his personal experience and the traditions of gun ownership in his home state of Texas to "lead the country on sensible gun safety policy" that reduces violence."It is not a politically easy thing to talk about, but I think if we talk about it from experience, out of pride and responsible gun ownership and ensuring that weapons of war are kept on the battlefield and they're not used in our schools and concerts and communities, we'll save a lot more lives and will do nothing to infringe upon any American's Second Amendment rights," he said.He has called for universal background checks, a federal assault weapons ban, the closing of loopholes that allow someone to purchase a gun before their background check is completed and a ban on bump stocks, the device used by the Las Vegas shooter to mimic a fully automatic weapon.The El Paso native is on a two-day swing through Nevada, an early Western caucus state with a significant Latino population. At packed gatherings in living rooms, a coffee shop and a Mexican restaurant, O'Rourke praised the role immigrants play in his hometown and in America and occasionally switched to Spanish as he addressed bilingual members of the audience. Before speaking inside the coffee shop, he climbed on top of his rental van and spoke to dozens waiting outside who couldn't fit in the building.As he spoke to an AP reporter, he was repeatedly stopped by people who wished him well and asked to take a picture, which he always obliged. One man brought him a copy of a newspaper with O'Rourke's picture on it and introduced the candidate to his dog.O'Rourke, who has called for legalizing marijuana, said he has not yet visited one of Nevada's legal marijuana dispensaries to see what legalization looks like in practice, but he would like to do so.The three-term congressman also said he doesn't have enough experience with the debate over decriminalizing sex work to give an intelligent answer on whether prostitution should be legalized — as it is in Nevada — but that he'd like to talk to those involved about it, including the sex workers.O'Rourke has been striking a more centrist message than some of the candidates in the field.The Republican National Committee said in a statement Sunday that his policies, like an embrace of the "Green New Deal" climate change plan and a past call to tear down the U.S.-Mexico border wall, show he "is on a collision course with everyday Americans who will reject his extremist views that offer no substance or solution."As he's conducted a marathon tour of early voting and swing states in recent days, O'Rourke has told voters he wants to bring people together and highlighted his plans to visit areas where voters strongly supported President Donald Trump in the 2016 election.O'Rourke said he thinks he understands the reasoning behind the Democratic National Committee's move to bar Fox News from hosting any Democratic presidential debates, saying it would avoid rewarding a network that has "functionally been a partner to President Trump and his administration, stoking paranoia and fear and anxiety, trafficking in some of the bitterness and meanness and smallness that defines so much of this administration and frankly our national politics."AdvertisementSupported byBy The Associated PressFAYETTEVILLE, N.C. — Authorities say a juvenile has been charged in the shooting death of a newborn baby at a home in North Carolina.The Cumberland County Sheriff's Office said Sunday that the juvenile is in custody in the shooting death Friday night of a 21-day-old infant in Fayetteville.The sheriff's office says the baby was pronounced dead at a medical center where it was taken Friday night.Authorities declined to identify the juvenile, disclose further details of the shooting or the charge or charges involved.A study published in the American Journal of Public Health estimated that 43 percent of U.S. homes with children and guns had at least one unlocked firearm, meaning it wasn't kept in a locked place nor protected by a trigger lock or other mechanism.AdvertisementSupported byConservative judges worry that the Second Amendment has become “a second-class right.”By Linda GreenhouseContributing Opinion Writer A specter is haunting the Supreme Court  — disrespect for the Second Amendment. Perhaps you haven’t realized that the Supreme Court’s disinclination to expand on its landmark 2008 decision creating an individual right to gun ownership means that the justices are treating the Second Amendment as a “second-class right.” A “watered-down right.” A “disfavored right.”If you are unaware of these outlandish claims, then you haven’t tuned into the rising chorus of judicial voices demanding more from the Supreme Court than gun fanciers already won in that intensely disputed 5-to-4 decision a decade ago, District of Columbia v. Heller.Why is this happening, and why now? To understand why the “second-class right” meme is suddenly penetrating the judicial conversation, we have to begin with Justice Clarence Thomas. He is not the first member of the current Supreme Court to use the phrase; Justice Samuel Alito Jr. used it in his 2010 opinion that extended the analysis of the Heller decision, which had applied only to Washington, D.C., as a federal enclave, to the states. The court was being asked, Justice Alito wrote in McDonald v. City of Chicago, “to treat the right recognized in Heller as a second-class right,” which he said the court would not do.But it is Justice Thomas who has taken up the phrase as a weapon, using it in a series of opinions over the past four years to accuse his colleagues of failing in their duty to keep pushing back against limitations on gun ownership and use. The opinions were all dissents from the court’s decisions not to hear particular gun-rights appeals.In 2015, for example, he wrote that the United States Court of Appeals for the Seventh Circuit had been wrong to uphold an Illinois city’s ban on assault weapons, and that by refusing to hear the appeal, his colleagues had failed to “prevent the Seventh Circuit from relegating the Second Amendment to a second-class right.” Last year, objecting to the court’s decision not to hear a challenge to California’s 10-day waiting period for gun purchases, Justice Thomas mused that “I suspect that four members of this court would vote to review a 10-day waiting period for abortions.” He declared, “The right to keep and bear arms is apparently this court’s constitutional orphan.” In another opinion, this time joined by Justice Neil Gorsuch, Justice Thomas said it was “indefensible” and “untenable” for the Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit to have upheld California’s ban on carrying concealed weapons. By turning down the appeal, he wrote, the justices were enabling “the treatment of the Second Amendment as a disfavored right.” And in a remarkable concluding paragraph to his eight-page opinion, he added:“For those of us who work in marbled halls, guarded constantly by a vigilant and dedicated police force, the guarantees of the Second Amendment might seem antiquated and superfluous. But the Framers made a clear choice: They reserved to all Americans the right to bear arms for self-defense. I do not think we should stand by idly while a state denies its citizens that right, particularly when their very lives may depend on it.”By calling attention to Justice Thomas’s Second Amendment crusade, I want to make four points.First, he’s simply wrong. The court decided Heller to vindicate what the majority described as a “core” Second Amendment right — the right of an individual to keep a handgun at home for self-defense. That’s all. Whatever else the Second Amendment enables people to do with their guns was left open. As Justice Antonin Scalia observed in his majority opinion, “It is not a right to keep and carry any weapon whatsoever in any manner whatsoever and for whatever purpose.”Maybe Justice Scalia included that and a few other disclaimers in order to stay within the comfort zone of a member of his narrowest of majorities, probably Justice Anthony M. Kennedy. Or maybe he was just kicking the can down the road. In any event, it’s certainly not the case that justices who decline to overturn a 10-day waiting period can be accurately labeled hypocrites who are content to hide in their marble palace while leaving the populace unprotected.Nor is the Second Amendment absolutism that Justice Thomas is calling for reflected in the way the Supreme Court interprets most other constitutional guarantees. Judge Bruce Selya of the Court of Appeals for the First Circuit made this point in a majority opinion in November rejecting a challenge to a provision of the Massachusetts gun licensing statute. “Even though the Second Amendment right is fundamental,” Judge Selya, an appointee of President Ronald Reagan, wrote in his opinion for a unanimous panel, “the plaintiffs have offered us no valid reason to treat it more deferentially than other important constitutional rights.” That decision, Gould v. Morgan, will shortly be appealed to the Supreme Court.My second point is to underscore the role Justice Thomas plays in creating this rhetorical tidal wave. He is a Federalist Society icon and a hero to many young conservative lawyers, including the 10 former Thomas law clerks whom President Trump has already appointed to federal judgeships. (A dozen other former Thomas clerks hold important nonjudicial positions in the administration.) They and their colleagues among the new Trump judges, many of whom clerked for other conservative justices, are the ones who are making the “second-class right” mantra a standard feature of any Second Amendment dissent — in other words, not only that a particular majority opinion is incorrect, but that it is part of a dangerous trend that the Supreme Court, by implication if not explicitly, needs to address right now.For example, the full 15-member Court of Appeals for the Fifth Circuit recently refused to reconsider a decision by a three-judge panel to uphold the longstanding federal ban on interstate sales of handguns. Dissenting from that refusal, Judge James C. Ho, a former Thomas clerk who joined the Fifth Circuit last year, cited Justice Thomas’s opinions in observing, “Yet the Second Amendment continues to be treated as a ‘second-class’ right.” His dissent included a subtle dig at Chief Justice John Roberts, who notably has not joined Justice Thomas’s Second Amendment choir. The government rationale for the ban on interstate handgun sales is that while federally licensed firearm dealers can be expected to know the laws of their own state, they may not be familiar with laws of other states and so may not know whether an out-of-state purchaser is legally entitled to own a gun.That is not sufficient justification for the ban, Judge Ho wrote; if dealers could learn their own state’s laws, they could learn other states’ laws as well. “Put simply, the way to require compliance with state handgun laws is to require compliance with state handgun laws,” he wrote in a riff on the chief justice’s much-discussed line in a 2007 school integration case: “The way to stop discrimination on the basis of race is to stop discriminating on the basis of race.”Judge Ho’s Fifth Circuit colleague Don R. Willett, another new member of the court, observed in his own dissenting opinion in the same case, “The Second Amendment is neither second class, nor second rate, nor second tier.” An appeal in that case, Mance v. Whitaker, is now pending at the Supreme Court, and the justices will decide this month or next whether to accept it.Another new judge, Stephanos Bibas, dissented last month from a decision by a panel of the Court of Appeals for the Third Circuit that upheld a New Jersey law limiting a firearm magazine to 10 rounds of ammunition. He said the state had failed to provide sufficient evidence that “specifically links large magazines to mass-shooting deaths.” Acknowledging that five other federal circuit courts have also upheld limits on magazine sizes, Judge Bibas observed that while judges were understandably concerned about gun violence, “they err in subjecting the Second Amendment to different, watered-down rules and demanding little if any proof.”“The Second Amendment is an equal part of the Bill of Rights,” Judge Bibas wrote. “We may not water it down and balance it away based on our own sense of wise policy.” That case is likely to be appealed to the Supreme Court. The New Jersey affiliate of the National Rifle Association, which brought the case, is first seeking review by the full Third Circuit.The 49-year-old Judge Bibas, a former law professor, won plaudits for his dissenting opinion. “It is easy to see why President Trump chose to appoint him,” said an article on the website ammoland.com that appeared under the headline: “Third Circuit: Second Amendment Is a Second Rate Right.” John O. McGinnis, a well-known conservative professor at Northwestern University Law School, writing on the Law and Liberty website, called Judge Bibas’s dissent “the judicial equivalent of a perfect game, a first-round knockout, or a checkmate within 10 moves.” He added, “It will not be the last opinion of the Trump appellate judges that will shake the judiciary from its dogmatic slumber.”My third point is this: Professor McGinniss may well be right, at least when it comes to the Second Amendment. The substitution of Brett Kavanaugh for Justice Kennedy may do the trick. On his former court, the Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit, Justice Kavanaugh took an aggressive gun-rights position, dissenting in 2011 from a decision that upheld the district’s ban on certain assault rifles. Calling the majority’s analytical approach to the case “especially inappropriate,” then-Judge Kavanaugh wrote: “A ban on a class of arms is not an ‘incidental’ regulation. It is equivalent to a ban on a category of speech.” As a matter of constitutional doctrine, I understand his argument: that a right deemed by the Supreme Court to be fundamental, whether under the First Amendment or the Second, is entitled to the highest level of judicial protection. Nonetheless, to analogize possession of assault rifles to the right to free speech is a provocative move.The two conservative judges who made up the majority on the three-judge panel, Douglas Ginsburg and Karen LeCraft Henderson, were sufficiently provoked by Judge Kavanaugh’s 52-page dissent that they added to their own opinion an unusual six-page “appendix” for the specific purpose of contesting his arguments. “The dissent mischaracterizes the question before us,” Judge Ginsburg wrote for himself and Judge Henderson. “We simply do not read Heller as foreclosing every ban on every possible sub-class of handguns or, for that matter, a ban on a sub-class of rifles.”Justice Thomas himself has cited Judge Kavanaugh’s dissenting opinion favorably. It would hardly be surprising for Justice Kavanaugh to return the favor and join the crusade.And that brings me to my final point. The Supreme Court’s appetite for expanding the Second Amendment, if such an appetite develops, will be wildly out of sync with the mood of the country. As The Times reported last month, based on data compiled by a gun-control advocacy group, public support for gun-control measures is surging. State legislatures passed 69 gun-control measures in 2018, more than three times the number in the previous year. More than half the states enacted at least one, while 90 percent of bills the National Rifle Association backed at the state level were defeated. Even the Trump administration has caught the trend, with its announcement last month of a ban on bump stocks, the cheap attachments that turn ordinary rifles into something close to machine guns and that the Las Vegas killer used to commit mass murder a year ago. The ban, to take effect in March, has already drawn at least two lawsuits. Perhaps these lawsuits will be a step too far even for the Second Amendment newbies on the federal bench. Or maybe not.Does it matter if the public and the Supreme Court are running in opposite directions? It’s good news to anyone who would like to accelerate the collapse of public confidence in the one organ of government that at the moment seems to stand between us and disaster. For the rest of us, it’s one more thing to worry about as the new year begins.AdvertisementSupported byBy The Associated PressBOISE, Idaho — The largest supplier of bump stocks turned in its entire remaining inventory to be destroyed — some 60,000 devices. Washington state's buyback program was so popular it ran out of money. One dealer held a "Viking funeral" for his last bump stock, pouring a can of beer on it and then melting it down with a flamethrower.A nationwide ban took effect Tuesday on bump stocks, the attachment used by the gunman in the 2017 Las Vegas massacre to make his weapons fire rapidly like machine guns.How many of the estimated half-million devices believed to be in circulation in the U.S. are still around is anyone's guess, but in the weeks leading up to the ban, there were signs that many were destroyed or turned in as required.Anyone in possession of a bump stock from now on can be charged with a federal offense punishable by up to 10 years in prison.The Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives outlawed the attachments at President Donald Trump's direction after the Las Vegas gunman rained fire from his high-rise hotel suite on concertgoers, killing 58 people in the deadliest mass shooting in modern U.S. history.On Thursday, the Supreme Court declined to put the ban on hold.As the prohibition drew near, RW Arms in Fort Worth, Texas, featured a countdown clock on its website and heavily promoted last chances to buy the accessories. By the time the ban took effect, RW Arms was left with 60,000, probably worth millions, since they sell for around $150 to $250 each.The company turned over crates of them to the ATF, and a video showed boxes being loaded onto a conveyer belt and fed into an industrial grinder.Washington state set aside $150,000 to offer owners $150 for each device they turned in to police. Within weeks, the money had been used up.The ATF declined to say how many people brought their bump stocks to an ATF office.T.J. Kirgin, owner of a firearms tactical gear company in St. Peters, Missouri, said that in the weeks before the measure went into effect, he made one last sweep through his warehouse to make sure he didn't have any more devices left.And then he took his very last one and with some friends held a mock funeral for it, reducing it to a hunk of melted plastic embedded in a rock.While gun control activists welcomed the end of the line for a device blamed for horrifying carnage, Kirgin called it not just the day bump stocks died but the day freedom died."If they can do this with a piece of plastic, then they'll be able to do it with another piece of plastic and another piece of metal, another piece of plastic," he said. "And it's just systematically taking away Second Amendment rights."AdvertisementSupported byBy The Associated PressNEW YORK — El Chapo, the fashionista?The convicted drug lord and his wife have stylish future plans: Creating clothing with the brand name "El Chapo."The New York Daily News reports that 61-year-old Joaquin Guzman and his 29-year-old wife, Emma Coronel Aispuro, are working together on the project.She tells the newspaper that his signature would be part of the brand logo. And there's already an official website.El Chapo was found guilty in February of murder conspiracy charges, drug trafficking, money laundering and firearms possession. He's awaiting sentencing and could spend the rest of his life in prison.But living behind bars may not be a deal-breaker when it comes to fashion with the kind of edgy image that's sexy to some people.AdvertisementSupported byBy The Associated PressANCHORAGE, Alaska — Filthy Fuhrer and five other members of a white supremacist gang that was spawned in prisons in Alaska, Arizona and Colorado have been charged in the gruesome beating death of a member whose Nazi tattoo was burned off his rib cage with a hot knife.Fuhrer, who legally changed his name from Timothy Lobdell, and the others sporting tattoos like iron crosses, swastikas or Schultzstaffel (SS) lightning bolt tattoos also face federal racketeering charges of kidnapping and assault in the August 2017 beating death of Michael Staton, who went by the gang nickname Steak Knife. Court documents did not list attorneys for the men charged.Two others, Nicholas Kozorra and Dustin Clowers, have previously pleaded guilty to murder charges in Staton's death. Those plea agreements were recently unsealed.Bryan Schroder, the U.S. attorney in Alaska, said at a news conference in Anchorage on Wednesday that 14 other members of the 1488 prison gang or its associates have been charged or already sentenced in the federal investigation for offenses like being a felon in possession of a firearm, mail theft or distributing drugs or firearms.The gang got its start in 2010 among 50 to 100 prisoners either serving time in Alaska facilities or those shipped out-of-state to serve their sentences in Arizona or Colorado. Once members are paroled from prison, they are to report to leaders in what they call "Free Alaska.""Recently, the 1488s structure and influence expanded to rural and suburban areas throughout Alaska," the court documents say."If you see those kind of severe tattoos on people in your neighborhood, then maybe you want to let local law enforcement know, because there might be something going on," Schroder said.The name of the gang, 1488, refers to different tenets of white supremacy, according to court documents. The "14" refers to the 14 words in a white nationalist creed: "We must secure the existence of our people and a future for white children."There are two possible meanings for the last part of the gang's name. The 88 could reference the 88 precepts outlined by white supremacist David Lane, or they could stand for "Heil Hitler," since H is the eighth letter of the alphabet.They require all members to "be white, look white and act white."Members adorn themselves with Nazi-style tattoos, but the most coveted is awarded to so-called "made" members, who gain full membership by committing an act of violence on behalf of the gang.The 1488 "patch" tattoo is an iron cross superimposed over a swastika, and is tattooed on the right side of the ribcage.This was the tattoo that was burned off Staton's body the night he died in August 2017.According to Clowers' plea agreement, gang members suspected Staton had been stealing drugs and a Hells Angels' vest from Craig King, who is also charged. All the men were out of jail at this time, but Clowers was on ankle monitoring.Staton was beaten by four men, and his hands and feet were bound with duct tape and rope.He was delivered to a duplex in Wasilla, about 40 miles north of Anchorage. King and his wife lived on one side. The other side was vacant but prepared for the beating with walls and floor covered with painter's plastic.Inside, court documents say, Staton was further beaten before Clowers and two others heated the knife with a propane torch and took turns burning off Staton's 1488 patch."At that point Staton was still alive but was badly beaten," court documents say. His body was rolled in the carpet and the plastic, and put in the back of a vehicle and driven off.The gang gets its money from the illegal trafficking of drugs and firearms, and members used violence including murder, assault and obstruction of justice to protect and enhance their power, officials said.One of its goals was to enlist new members, recruited both inside prisons and outside. New recruits had to be sponsored by an existing member, but they would not accept someone for their sheer hustle, money or friendship."Instead, they claimed that only 'violence and unquestionable loyalty' could earn a patch," court documents say.A recruit was observed for at least 14 months before the membership cast a final vote. The vote had to be unanimous for a man to become a member.The gang didn't accept gay members, "rats" or people who had been charged with sex offenses, the documents say.Women are not allowed membership in the 1488. But they can be associates, and could be expected to smuggle drugs into imprisoned members.Alaska had inmates in Arizona and Colorado prior to 2013, said Sylvan Robb with the Department of Corrections.Alaska Gov. Mike Dunleavy, as part of his budget, proposed sending at least 500 inmates to out-of-state prisons as a potential way to save money. A House subcommittee recently rejected the idea, with House Finance Committee Co-chair Tammie Wilson saying the administration provided little information for how that would work.AdvertisementSupported byBy The Associated PressFORT WORTH, Texas — A Texas retailer of now-banned bump stocks has transferred about 60,000 of the gun-related items to the federal government to be destroyed.RW Arms of Fort Worth turned over the bump stocks to the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives. The products will be shredded and recycled.ATF agents were present as crates of new RW Arms bump stops were delivered to a shredding facility on Tuesday, the day the ban took effect.AdvertisementSupported byBy The Associated PressLAWRENCE, Kan. — Dashcam video released Monday shows a Kansas police officer shooting and wounding a man in a case in which the rookie officer told investigators she mistakenly fired her firearm instead of her Taser.The video provided in response to an open records request is from the patrol vehicle of an officer who pulled over 35-year-old Akira Lewis for a suspected seatbelt violation in May 2018 near downtown Lawrence, the Lawrence Journal-World report ed. Lewis is heard in the video telling the white officer that he was pulled over because he is black and insists on seeing a supervisor. When he refuses to provide identification and continues arguing, backup officer Brindley Blood, who also is white, was summoned.She is seen shooting Lewis when he punches and tackles the officer who initiated the traffic stop. Blood, who resigned from the police force in January after being placed on paid leave, is charged with aggravated battery. Lewis was treated at a hospital and is charged with several misdemeanors, including battery against a law enforcement officer.The affidavit in the case against Blood said she didn't realize she had shot Lewis until she looked for the Taser wires to see if they had hit their mark and realized there weren't any. She said during her interview with investigators, "I shot, shot him, I pulled my firearm instead of my Taser," the affidavit said.The city initially denied the Journal-World's request for the video, saying at that time the materials were "part of an ongoing investigation" and "criminal investigation records." The newspaper again requested the video last week, after it was played in Douglas County District Court during a hearing for Blood.Judge Peggy Kittel is weighing whether to bind Blood over for trial. Her attorneys argue that while Blood made a mistake she was not reckless, as the charge alleges, and that the case against her should be dropped. Kittel is scheduled to announce her ruling later this week.Lewis' attorney, Shaye Downing, said in a statement Monday that during the officers' attempt to arrest Lewis for a "seatbelt violation" the officers "initiated physical contact and escalated a situation that could have been easily de-escalated by any number of interventions.""After this incident, there are serious concerns about the training officers receive and ongoing certification required to ensure that if an officer is faced with a situation where force is used, that they use only that level of force reasonably necessary for the given circumstances," Downing said.She also said Lewis has not received any help from the city of Lawrence for medical expenses for injuries he suffered during the confrontation.AdvertisementSupported byBy Mike IvesIt was the liquor talking, apparently.Two officials from an anti-immigrant political party in Australia said on Tuesday that an undercover recording of them explaining the political influence that money from the American gun lobby could potentially buy was not what it seemed.Their comments, they said, were just small talk made over rounds of scotch.In the recording, James Ashby, the chief of staff for Pauline Hanson, leader of the One Nation party, is heard to say that his right-wing party could “own” the Australian Senate and House of Representatives with a $20 million donation from the American gun lobby.The recording — by a reporter for Al Jazeera — was made in the United States during a trip last year, just weeks before an Australian law banning foreign political donations took effect.The recording was revealed on Monday in the first part of a two-part Al Jazeera documentary, “How to Sell a Massacre,” for which the Australian reporter Rodger Muller posed for years as a gun-rights advocate.Through the guise of a fake organization called Gun Rights Australia, Mr. Muller introduced Mr. Ashby and Steve Dickson, the One Nation party’s Queensland leader, to representatives from the National Rifle Association and Koch Industries during a trip to the United States in September.On Tuesday, Prime Minister Scott Morrison said on Twitter that reports of One Nation officials soliciting donations from the American gun lobby “to influence our elections & undermine our gun laws that keep us safe are deeply concerning.”Mr. Morrison, the leader of Australia’s Liberal Party, also accused One Nation of trying to “sell Australia’s gun laws to the highest bidders,” and said the revelations were another reason Australians should not vote for the One Nation party in general elections expected in May.Bill Shorten, the leader of the opposition Labor Party, accused One Nation of a “betrayal of the Australian political system.”“The idea of One Nation political party operatives going to the United States, seeking millions of dollars, promising to water down gun law protection in Australia — that was absolutely horrifying,” Mr. Shorten said.But Mr. Ashby told reporters on Tuesday that the meetings with the N.R.A. had been about sourcing technology and gaining “an understanding of how they operate.” He said they were never about requesting $20 million, and that he and Mr. Dickson had traveled to the United States on a fact-finding mission.“The conversations that have been recorded where there is talk of $10 and $20 million dollars — I’ll be the first to admit, we’d arrived in America, we’d got on the sauce, we’d had a few drinks,” Mr. Ashby said.“And that’s where those discussions took place,” he continued. “Not with any potential donors. No one but Rodger Muller, Steve Dickson and myself.”Many Americans can buy a gun in less than an hour. In New Zealand, the process can take weeks or months.Mr. Dickson said that Mr. Muller, the journalist, had “seemed to be a very reasonable guy” — an impression he said was bolstered by Mr. Muller’s Akubra bush hat, akin to an American cowboy hat. He said the conversation was merely a product of “having scotches for three or four hours.”“I never, ever, suspected in my wildest dreams that that guy was employed by a Middle Eastern country, by Al Jazeera, as an Australian spy to interfere in Australian politics,” Mr. Dickson said.Al Jazeera, a satellite network based in Qatar and owned by that country’s government, said in a report on Tuesday that the documentary “provides a rare inside view of how the N.R.A. deliberates over mass shootings and seeks to manipulate media coverage to push its pro-gun agenda.”In an email, Jennifer Baker, the director of public affairs for the N.R.A., called Al Jazeera a “state-owned anti-gun” network and said, “At no time did the N.R.A. contribute funding to any Australian political party or Gun Rights Australia.”The Australian government introduced some of the world’s toughest gun laws in 1996, after a gunman with a semiautomatic rifle killed 35 people in the town of Port Arthur.The rate of intentional gun deaths in Australia had fallen about 33 percent from 1986 to 1996, the year of the Port Arthur massacre. But the decline accelerated after the new gun control measures were enacted, with the rate dropping about 60 percent from 1996 to 2006. President Barack Obama later cited the laws as a potential model for the United States.One Nation’s website says that the focus of its firearms policy is to “move away from trying to criminalize firearms ownership to punishing criminals for the use of firearms to commit crimes.” Among other measures, the party’s platform calls for reducing waiting periods for handgun purchases.In response to the new documentary, One Nation said in a statement that its members always complied with the law. It also called Al Jazeera “a state owned propaganda arm of the Qatari government that supports Islamic extremist groups and are not a legitimate media organization.”In 2017, Ms. Hanson, the party’s leader, sparked controversy by walking into the Australian Senate wearing a burqa as a way of drawing attention to her party’s push to ban full-face coverings in public. The move drew strong criticism from other senators.AdvertisementSupported byBy The Associated PressNORFOLK, Va. — Police in Virginia say they've charged a man in the fatal shooting of a William & Mary football player last week.Norfolk police said in a statement Tuesday that they arrested 20-year-old Kri'Shawn Beamon at his Chesapeake home Monday and charged him with second-degree murder, robbery and firearms offenses.Officers called to an area near Old Dominion University on Thursday for a shooting found 19-year-old Nathan Evans on the sidewalk suffering from a gunshot wound. Police say he was pronounced dead at the scene.AdvertisementSupported byBy Ali Winston[What you need to know to start the day: Get New York Today in your inbox.]A man has been taken into police custody in connection with a brutal attack on a 78-year-old woman on the subway in the Bronx this month, the police said on Saturday.The man, Marc Gomez, 36, of Yonkers, was arrested around 10:30 a.m. on Saturday in Lower Manhattan, the police said. Mr. Gomez was identified this week by an anonymous tip that said he often hung around areas of Lower Manhattan. Mr. Gomez was charged with felony assault.The attack, which took place around 3 a.m. on March 10, surfaced this week when a video of the assault was posted to the internet. The recording of the attack had received more than 10 million views as of Saturday afternoon.The video showed a tall man wearing jeans, glasses, a leather jacket and a knit cap forcefully kicking the woman at least six times as she sat on a northbound No. 2 train that was pulling into the Nereid Avenue station. Bystanders recorded the encounter and shouted but did not intervene.As the man made his way off the train, he turned to the passengers recording and said, “WorldStar that” — a reference to a popular website that often showcases clips of violent altercations.The woman was met by an ambulance at the next train station, and treated for swelling and cuts to the face, the police said.On Sunday, Alisa Cox, Mr. Gomez’s fiancйe, said the woman repeatedly threatened her family, including her 11-year-old daughter, as they were traveling back to Yonkers after attending a birthday party.“It looks like he just went over there and starting kicking her for no apparent reason,” Ms. Cox, 44, said in an interview, adding, “I’ve known him since he was 16. He’s not a bad person.”Ms. Cox said Mr. Gomez, who had been working in a TriBeCa restaurant, immediately expressed remorse after he got off the train, admitting he let his temper get the best of him.Mr. Gomez has another open case in connection with an arrest from November. Officers arrested Mr. Gomez and a teenager after they found a loaded shotgun in a car the two were riding in on the Cross Bronx Expressway, the police said.Mr. Gomez was charged at the time with criminal possession of a loaded firearm, criminal possession of a firearm and criminal possession of a weapon after the police said they found a Mossberg shotgun in the car, a 2018 Mercedes with taxi license plates.While crime in the subway — and the city — is at lows not seen since the 1950s, violent encounters in the transit system posted to social media receive outsize attention. One such attack was the murder of 20-year-old Abel Mosso by alleged rival gang members on a Queens subway platform last month.As of March 17, there were 465 reported crimes in the transit system, down from 476 during the same period in 2018.Tyler Pager and Ashley Southall contributed reporting.AdvertisementSupported byBy ReutersCHRISTCHURCH — The pre-dawn quiet of New Zealand's South Island is shattered by the crack of a bullet from Noel Womersley's Finnish Tikka T3 rifle, followed by the shot thudding into the skull of a cow he is targeting, one of three.For 14 years Womersley has worked at "home kill," shooting beasts for small farmers and cutting them up, but tough new gun laws to be adopted after the nation's worst mass murder by a lone gunman will require him to surrender another of his guns."Guns are a way of life for me, really," says Womersley, 48, who received his first firearm, a .22-calibre rifle, for his 12th birthday, and now hunts with his 15-year-old daughter."It's pretty much what I live and breathe. I (shoot) on the weekends for fun and then I do it during the week for a job."As the first beast slumps, he rapidly draws back and pushes forward his riflebolt, firing again and then a third time. In seconds, three cattle are dead on the damp ground. He gathers his knives and begins to cut them up."I shoot animals, I don't shoot targets. I shoot food," says Womersley.Wearing black overalls and gumboots for protection against the gore, he pushes the cattle on their sides, removes heads and hide and uses a hoist to load the carcasses on his refrigerated truck.Womersley was on a similar job in the hinterland beyond Christchurch on March 15, when a man in combat gear entered the city's Al Noor mosque, and then another, and turned his high-powered military-style weapons on unarmed worshippers."I didn't really comprehend it was real. I thought it was like a movie, or something that's happened overseas," Womersley says, adding that he had been shocked to discover after work what had unfolded just a few kilometers away.Fifty people were killed and scores wounded, prompting an outpouring of support for the nation's bereaved Muslim community, and a swift crackdown on guns. The semi-automatics used in the attack will be banned, with exemptions for working hunters, and tougher licensing rules are on the drawing board.A wide swathe of New Zealand's quarter-million gun owners, who account for about 1.5 million weapons, say they accept there must be change after the tragedy."I think the gun laws were too slack...the laws gave this bad man a gun," says Womersley, who owns eight or nine guns, stored in a safe in the garage of a home decorated with game heads. "He ruined it for everyone. Not everyone is like that."As part of a new national firearm buyback scheme, he expects to hand in one military-style AR-15 assault rifle, a type of weapon used in the Christchurch massacre.AdvertisementSupported byBy Liam StackA New York man who discussed an American re-enactment of the New Zealand mosque massacre with white supremacist friends on Facebook was charged Thursday with lying to F.B.I. agents, law enforcement officials said.According to the criminal complaint, Thomas Alonzo Bolin, 22, was charged on Wednesday with lying to federal agents in an interview last week about whether he owned firearms, the Office of the United States Attorney for the Western District of New York said. He was already in custody on state charges filed Saturday.The office said the F.B.I. had been investigating Mr. Bolin, who lives in the Rochester suburb of Greece, N.Y., for possible violations of federal civil rights and firearms laws.It was not clear on Thursday whether Mr. Bolin had made any specific plans for violence. But in Facebook messages he had praised the March 15 mass killing of 50 people at two mosques in Christchurch, New Zealand, according to the criminal complaint. He also discussed his desire to commit acts of violence in the messages, which were intercepted by law enforcement officials.The F.B.I. said Mr. Bolin used the alias Peter Vincent to share video of the Christchurch attack, which was livestreamed by the shooter on Facebook and spread to Twitter, Reddit and YouTube. Mr. Bolin also used that alias to be active in white supremacist Facebook groups and discuss potential violence with his cousin, Austin Witkowski, the agency said.A law enforcement official said Mr. Witkowski, who used the Facebook alias Ragnar Odinson, had not been arrested. The official said his whereabouts was unknown.The F.B.I. used Facebook messages to map out weeks of racist conversations between the two men, who appeared to share a specific hostile fixation on Muslims, according to the complaint.On the day of the Christchurch attack, the two men also talked to each other about the manifesto published by the gunman and shared their hope that a similar massacre would happen in the United States.The F.B.I. said Mr. Bolin talked to his cousin about the New Zealand gunman, telling him, “Brugh dude killed 40 muslims.” Mr. Witkowski responded with a heart emoji and the word, “Lovely.”Both men talked to other Facebook users about the Christchurch attack, the F.B.I. said, and their desire to emulate it in the United States, although those other users are not identified in the criminal complaint.Talking about the shooting with one of those unidentified Facebook users, Mr. Brolin said “there is a war brewing” and “realistically this was a small piece of a bigger picture now we wait for the retaliation.”The criminal complaint alleges that Mr. Witkowski made more specific threats. Speaking to an unidentified Facebook user, Mr. Witkowski said he wanted to see the Christchurch attacks copied in the United States and then said he was willing to “do something as of next week” in Baltimore.The complaint said Mr. Witkowski told the other Facebook user to buy firearms, ammunition and food, and said that he would travel to meet him the next week. The complaint does not say if the meeting ever happened.The day after the shooting, Mr. Bolin and Mr. Witkowski expressed frustration to each other that they had not been able to carry out an attack. According to the complaint, Mr. Bolin said he had broken his arm in a car accident.Using an expletive, Mr. Witkowski responded that the broken arm would complicate an unspecified plan they had made. Mr. Bolin then reassured him, saying it only “takes one arm to fire a Glock.”Mr. Witkowski wrote back saying he would carry out their plan himself. “I’m not waiting months and months or a week,” he said. “It was supposed to be done by Halloween.”Later that day, Mr. Witkowski wrote to his cousin: “Words aren’t going to help. Violence is the key.” The F.B.I. said Mr. Bolin then cautioned his cousin not to say anything more on Facebook.“Yoooo chill,” he wrote. “Not on the fed book.” Mr. Witkowski replied that he did not care.Using the Peter Vincent alias, Mr. Bolin managed a Facebook group called Odin’s Warriors, which did not appear to be active on Thursday. The F.B.I. said Mr. Bolin and his cousin were members of a neo-pagan religious group called “Folk Odinism” that worships the gods of Norse mythology and limits its membership to white heterosexuals.The criminal complaint said investigators linked Mr. Bolin to the Peter Vincent account by combing through Facebook messages, where Mr. Vincent once told someone that his “real name is Thomas Bolin, Peter Vincent is a character from a horror movie.” (That was most likely the 1985 vampire movie “Fright Night,” or the 2011 remake.)Facebook provided the F.B.I. with Mr. Bolin’s messages on March 21 as part of a “voluntary emergency disclosure of subscriber and content information,” the agency said. A representative for the company said it shares user information with law enforcement without going through a formal legal process only when it believes there to be an imminent risk of serious injury or death.“White supremacy, hate groups, and hate speech are not allowed on Facebook, and we also recently announced a ban on praise or support of white nationalism,” the company said in a statement. “We remove any content that violates our policies and work with law enforcement when we think there is a genuine risk of real-world harm.”AdvertisementSupported byBy The Associated PressVICKSBURG, Miss. — A Georgia man was shot Sunday by a man and woman who went on to rob fast-food restaurants, take two hostages during a carjacking and fire at deputies during a high-speed chase prior to their capture Monday, authorities said.The string of crimes stretched across three states, beginning in Columbus, Georgia early Sunday and ending in Vicksburg, Mississippi, late Monday, Warren County, Mississippi, Sheriff Martin Pace told reporters Tuesday.Sharae Dominique Threadgill, 21, of Ellerslie, Georgia, and Jalen Benton, 18, of Stone Mountain, Georgia, were captured after carjacking a mother and daughter and shooting at deputies chasing the carjacked SUV, officials said.Pace said that one of the two hostages, forced to drive, slammed on the brakes, with both hostages jumping out.Pace said Threadgill then took over the wheel, with Benton firing more shots. Pace said deputies shot out one of the SUV's tires and the vehicle ran out of gas, finally ending the chase."These are some dangerous people," Pace said. "I firmly believe the hostage driver made a lifesaving/life preserving decision when she choose to end the period where she was driving,"A judge on Tuesday denied bail to the pair, who are jailed in Vicksburg. It's unclear if either has a lawyer. Warren County charged Benton with two counts of simple assault on a police officer, armed carjacking, two counts of kidnapping and two counts of possession of a stolen firearm. Threadgill is charged with armed carjacking, two counts of kidnapping, felony fleeing and eluding a law enforcement officer and two counts of possession of a stolen firearm. The two are likely to face numerous charges elsewhere.Officials in Columbus, Georgia, say they believe Threadgill and Benton tried to rob 30-year-old Phillip Whitaker, who was found dead in a truck at an apartment around 2 a.m. Sunday. Columbus police believe he was shot in a failed armed robbery attempt at a separate apartment complex.AdvertisementSupported byBy Alan FeuerEven though jurors in the trial of the Mexican drug lord Joaquнn Guzmбn Loera have spent nearly three months in the courtroom, they seem to be in no rush to go home. In a day and a half of deliberations, they have already written four notes with substantive questions and requests for evidence, including one that asked for more than a week’s worth of testimony from three witnesses.It is difficult to glean much information from a jury’s notes, but those that have been sent so far by the jurors in this case suggest that the panel is making a genuine effort to sort through more than 10 weeks of testimony and exhibits.That is a daunting task, not only because of the volume of the evidence, but also because jurors must work through an eight-page verdict sheet with 53 boxes that must be checked “Guilty or Not Guilty,” “Proven or Not Proven,” or simply “Yes or No.”The verdict sheet is based on the indictment charging Mr. Guzmбn, who is best known as El Chapo, with 10 separate counts, the most important of which accuses him of being a leader of a “continuing criminal enterprise” from 1990 to 2014.The enterprise count is composed of 27 violations, most of which allege that Mr. Guzmбn arranged specific drug deals, from 400 kilograms of marijuana to nearly 20 tons of cocaine. There is also a murder conspiracy violation that claims he either personally killed or ordered the deaths of dozens of people.The other counts accuse Mr. Guzmбn of making, importing and distributing drugs; using firearms to further his operation; and conspiring to launder the profits of his empire.Complicating matters, four of the violations listed under the enterprise charge are also included as separate counts on the verdict sheet. Another twist: the jury cannot consider the firearms and money laundering counts, unless it first finds that Mr. Guzmбn is guilty of at least one of the drug counts.On Monday morning, it took Judge Brian M. Cogan, who is handling the case, almost three hours to instruct the jurors on how to proceed. By the end of the day, they had sent the judge two substantial notes, which illustrated the complexity of the their task. One asked if “a drug war” could be thought of as a drug trafficking crime that would trigger their consideration of the firearms charge. The other note asked if ephedrine — an ingredient in methamphetamines — was the same as the drug itself.On the second day of deliberations, in Federal District Court in Brooklyn, the jury made two additional requests concerning Mr. Guzmбn’s role in trafficking methamphetamines. They asked to rehear an intercepted phone call of the kingpin clearly discussing selling the drug. They also asked to be read testimony from a witness who said he once met with the man in charge of methamphetamine production for Mr. Guzmбn’s organization, the Sinaloa drug cartel.It was harder to discern the meaning of another request the jury made: They asked Judge Cogan to provide them with the entire eight-day testimony of Jorge and Alex Cifuentes-Villa, two Colombian brothers who worked closely with Mr. Guzmбn.To avoid reading the testimony aloud in court — which could easily take days — Judge Cogan suggested giving the jury a transcript. But that required redacting sidebars and the answers to questions the judge ruled should be struck from the record. The jury did not receive a copy of the transcript by the time court ended Tuesday afternoon.AdvertisementSupported byBy Christina CaronBy the end of February, the students at Manatee School for the Arts in Palmetto, Fla., will see two  combat veterans in body armor roaming the grounds, each carrying a 9-millimeter Glock handgun and a semiautomatic rifle with a 17-inch barrel.If an armed intruder were to enter the campus, “we’re not looking for a fair fight,” Bill Jones, the principal, said in an interview. “We’re looking at an overwhelming advantage.”Legislation passed after the Parkland massacre last year requires schools in Florida to have at least one “safe-school officer.” Manatee School for the Arts, a charter for 2,100 middle and high school students, is the only school in Manatee County that chose to hire guards who carry rifles, according to the Manatee County Sheriff’s Department, which trained the guards.[School safety. Gun control. Red flag laws. Read more on how America has responded to the Parkland massacre over the past year.]“It’s just a much more effective weapon than the handgun is,” Dr. Jones said.The decision to patrol with long guns is “very unusual,” said Michael Dorn, the executive director of Safe Havens International, which has performed security assessments at dozens of public school systems throughout Florida, including three of the state’s largest school districts.Mr. Dorn said he was not aware of any school guards in the United States who openly carry long guns, though it is not unusual in some areas overseas.“It’s not something that we typically advise our clients to do for a variety of reasons,” he added, in part because someone might knock out the officer and take the weapon, and it’s more difficult to subdue and handcuff an assailant while carrying a long gun.Manatee School for the Arts is also adding a guard shack to its entrance and will raise its perimeter fencing by two feet.Florida’s bill, named the Marjory Stoneman Douglas High School Public Safety Act after the school where the Parkland shooting occurred a year ago this week, gave schools the option of choosing between a school resource officer, who is employed by a law enforcement agency; a school safety officer, who is employed by either a law enforcement agency or by the district school board; or a school guardian, a school employee trained to stop lethal attacks.Last year, an Associated Press survey found that nine of the state’s 67 countywide school districts were supplementing officers by employing full-time guardians. The survey did not specify the type of weapons the guards would be using.“We have guardians in almost all of our elementary schools, and in most of our charter schools,” said Michael Barber, a spokesman for the School District of Manatee County.On the heels of the Florida massacre, at least half of the states enacted at least one gun control measure in 2018.The district’s public middle and high schools have school resource officers, he added.Manatee School for the Arts hired one guardian with 15 years of infantry experience who has now been on campus for a couple of months, Dr. Jones said. A second guardian, also a combat veteran, is finishing his training and will begin working this month, he added.Guardians are required to complete at least 132 hours of firearm safety and proficiency training.Dr. Jones said the school hired combat veterans because he wanted guards who wouldn’t hesitate to go after a gunman.“I don’t want this to be the first time they’ve had someone shooting at them,” he said.So far, Dr. Jones said, “most parents have been very accepting.”To assuage safety concerns about the high-powered weapons, the school requires its guardians to keep the chambers of their Kel-Tec RDB semiautomatic rifles empty, and the guns are not stored on campus.The presence of an armed guard doesn’t necessarily deter violence. During the shooting last February that left 17 in Parkland dead, there was an armed school resource officer standing by the door to the building who was later widely criticized for not entering. (He said he thought at the time that the gunman was outside.)[Read how the Parkland massacre has changed the lives of the survivors in their own words.]And in 2016, a teacher in Michigan was grazed in the neck by a bullet when a school resource officer negligently fired his gun. And in some cases, agitated students have grabbed officers’ guns, even while the guns were in holsters.Dr. Jones estimated that the total cost of the new security measures would be close to $200,000 for the 2018-19 school year, and said the armed guards would earn a yearly salary of about $50,000. It “substantially exceeds” the money received from the state, he added.Despite the heightened fear over school shootings, active shooters are statistically rare.Unintentional injury, which includes traffic accidents and drowning, is the leading cause of death for American school-age children.[Nearly 1,200 children have been killed by gun violence since the shooting in Parkland. Read how teenage journalists told their stories.]“Our mind-set is so locked into the rare but truly catastrophic active-shooter event,” Mr. Dorn said.On school property, students and school employees are more likely to die by suicide than a mass shooting, he added.Spending a lot of money to arm security officers addresses only one type of school safety concern, said Amanda Klinger, the director of operations at the Educator’s School Safety Network, an organization that trains educators and administrators in violence-prevention measures.“We don’t know that those security interventions will stop the things that they’re seeking to stop,” Ms. Klinger said. “My question is, what else are they doing to keep kids safe in schools? What are they doing to keep kids safe from risks or threats other than active shooters?”AdvertisementSupported byBy The Associated PressBRUCETON MILLS, W.Va. — A West Virginia motorist going nearly twice the speed limit was detained Wednesday after he threatened to kill President Donald Trump and blow up the Pentagon, state police said.The man was taken into custody following a traffic stop along Interstate 68 in northern West Virginia, state police said in a news release.The statement said a trooper saw a vehicle registered from Missouri clocked at 130 mph (209 kph). The trooper stopped the vehicle near Bruceton Mills and indicated the driver appeared to be confused and distressed and made concerning comments.Police dogs indicated the presence of explosive materials inside the vehicle, but the statement said a search turned up no such devices and the incident remains under investigation.The interstate was reopened after nearly four hours. The 42-year-old suspect's name wasn't immediately released.The Secret Service, the U.S. Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives, the FBI and Maryland state police assisted.AdvertisementSupported byA look at an analysis of data from the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, and what it means. By Adeel HassanThe number of deaths from alcohol, drugs and suicide in 2017 hit the highest level since the collection of this type of federal mortality data started in 1999, according to an analysis by two public health nonprofits, the Trust for America’s Health and the Well Being Trust. To reach their conclusion, the two groups parsed the latest available data from the federal Centers for Disease Control and Prevention.More than 150,000 Americans died from alcohol and drug-induced fatalities and suicide in 2017. Nearly a third — 47,173 — were suicides.“There are two crises unfolding in America right now,” said Dr. Benjamin Miller, the chief policy officer for Well Being Trust and the founding director of the Eugene S. Farley Jr. Health Policy Center in Aurora, Colo. “One is in health care, and one is in society.”Dr. Miller attributed the increasing disparities in health care and inequalities in income as crucial factors in the feelings of despair, loneliness and a lack of belonging that contributed to suicides among many Americans.Twenty years ago, less than 1,000 deaths a year were attributed to fentanyl and synthetic opioids. In 2017, more than 1,000 Americans died from synthetic opioid overdoses every two weeks, topping 28,000 for the year. Most of the increase was concentrated in the preceding five years, when such deaths rose tenfold and the opioid epidemic became the leading cause of death for Americans under 55.West Virginia and New Mexico had the highest number of deaths, the analysis showed, with Mississippi and Texas the lowest. By region, the Northeast had the highest opioid death rates followed by the Midwest. The South’s rate was nearly half that of the Northeast.“The numbers are driven in no small way by pharmaceutical companies creating addicting drugs and clinicians inappropriately oversubscribing opioids,” said John Auerbach, president and chief executive of Trust for America’s Health.Though doctors and drug companies have been taking steps to control opioid addictions, Mr. Auerbach said, patients who are addicted to prescription opioids often shift to synthetic ones, like fentanyl, which is 50 times more potent than heroin. Fentanyl has also snaked its way into other drugs like cocaine, Xanax and MDMA, widening the epidemic.Guns, which remain plentiful and accessible, were used in nearly half of the nation’s 47,173 suicides in 2017, the analysis showed. Though most common with Caucasians, suicide by gun increased proportionally more among racial and ethnic minority groups, the study showed, especially among African-Americans and Latinos. The rate among children and adolescents increased 16 percent.Suicides can be the result of trauma that goes unrecognized or unaddressed — the loss of a job, home or death of a loved one, Mr. Auerbach said. “Without the social cohesiveness and social support built within family,” he said, “people are experiencing trauma without what gave them resilience historically.”While state legislatures passed 69 gun control measures in 2018, the measures are not reflected in this data, which were collected before 2018. There were 13,075 such deaths in 2017. Dr. Miller and Mr. Auerbach attributed this increase to copycat suicides. “People get the idea from high-profile celebrities who die by hanging,” Dr. Miller said. In addition, the materials used in a hanging suicide are much more available than firearms. On Tuesday, the Food and Drug Administration approved a prescription treatment intended to help the 16 million adult Americans living with depression. Experts in treating depression said they were encouraged by the news, but remained cautious about the development. Massachusetts, Oklahoma, Rhode Island, Utah and Wyoming saw decreases. In some instances, the numbers in these state were high to begin with, according to Mr. Auerbach, a former Massachusetts health commissioner.He said that in response to the crisis, Massachusetts had begun to limit prescriptions of opioids; increase patient beds; focus on quality of care for patients who had suffered trauma; create suicide prevention programs for veterans; and reduce the stigma of suicide through public information campaigns. “The old way was, ‘Don’t talk about it,’” he said. “The new way is, ‘Let’s talk about it.’”AdvertisementSupported byBy Mihir ZaveriThe parents of a woman who was fatally shot in San Francisco by an undocumented immigrant in 2015 cannot sue the city for freeing the man without telling federal immigration authorities just months before the shooting, a federal appeals court ruled this week.  President Trump has highlighted the case in his attacks on illegal immigration and sanctuary cities.Kathryn Steinle, 32, was shot by Jose Ines Garcia Zarate in July 2015 as she was walking on a San Francisco pier. Mr. Garcia Zarate, an undocumented immigrant who had been deported several times, had been freed by the San Francisco Sheriff’s Department less than three months earlier after charges against him were dropped in a separate drug case.In a trial that lasted more than five weeks, Mr. Garcia Zarate was acquitted by a jury in November 2017 on murder and manslaughter charges but convicted of being a felon in possession of a firearm. He said he had fired the gun by accident, and evidence presented at the trial indicated the bullet had ricocheted.Mr. Garcia Zarate was sentenced in January 2018 to the three years he had already served in prison pending trial. He faces two federal firearms charges in a separate case stemming from the July 2015 shooting. He has pleaded not guilty.The case gained national attention as Mr. Trump seized on it as an example of what he called the problems with illegal immigration and sanctuary cities, which seek to limit cooperation with federal immigration authorities. Immigrations and Customs Enforcement had asked the sheriff’s department to hold Mr. Zarate, but he was released in April 2015 “without notification to ICE,” according to Tuesday’s appellate court decision.Ms. Steinle’s parents filed a wrongful-death suit against the city and sheriff in 2016.Tuesday’s decision by a three-judge panel of the United States Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit affirmed a lower court’s ruling that said that the authorities in San Francisco cannot be held liable for Ms. Steinle’s death.“Kathryn Steinle’s death was a senseless tragedy,” the San Francisco City Attorney’s Office said in a statement Tuesday. “As a city, we are heartbroken for her family and continue to grieve for their loss. The issue before the court was whether the city and its taxpayers can be held liable under these circumstances for the actions of a former inmate. The appellate court affirmed that the city is not liable and that federal law did not compel the sheriff to act differently than he did.”The statement said the ruling “allows the city to decide what policies are best to protect all of its residents and make communities safer.”A lawyer for Mr. Garcia Zarate declined to comment on Tuesday night.Lawyers for the parents of Ms. Steinle did not immediately return calls for comment, and a phone call to a number listed for her father was not immediately returned.It’s not clear whether they plan to appeal Tuesday’s ruling.They still have pending claims against the United States over the gun used in the fatal shooting, which was stolen from a federal Bureau of Land Management ranger’s vehicle, according to the appellate court decision.Ms. Steinle’s death fed into a fierce debate over how law enforcement should approach immigrants without legal status; Mr. Garcia Zarate had been deported to Mexico at least five times from 1993 to 2011, according to court documents.AdvertisementSupported byBy ReutersSYDNEY — The morning commute for Australians in the country's second largest city was thrown into chaos on Thursday after armed police stormed a train station in response to an erroneous sighting of a gun.Trains at Melbourne's Flagstaff Station were suspended shortly around 8am local time (2200 GMT), while commuters were urged to stay clear of the local area."We had a concern that it might be someone with a firearm on a train," Graham Ashton, Victoria Police commissioner told 3AW radio station."There was no fire arm on the train."Trains resumed around an hour after the first report, Public Transport Victoria said, though major delays have now been reported.A staunch U.S. ally, Australia has been on heightened alert from 2015 for attacks by home-grown militants returning from fighting in the Middle East, and its intelligence agencies have stepped up scrutiny.AdvertisementSupported byletterThe National Organization for Women criticizes the gun lobby and the members of Congress in its sway. To the Editor:Re “N.R.A.’s Next Target: Violence Against Women Act” (news article, April 2):The National Rifle Association uses its legislative scorecard as a means of intimidating lawmakers into voting its way. The bills it chooses to include in its ratings reflect its top policy goals. Now you report that reauthorizing the Violence Against Women Act will be on that list. The message is clear: Vote to protect women’s lives at your political peril.The N.R.A. wants to leave open the “boyfriend loophole,” which allows intimate partners who are convicted of domestic violence, stalking or abuse to keep their firearms. Current protections apply only to men who are married to or who live with the women they abuse and with whom they have a child; boyfriends and exes get a pass.More than 1,800 women were murdered by men in 2016, and the most common weapon used was a gun, according to a study by the Violence Policy Center. The study found that most often, women were killed by men in the course of an argument.AdvertisementSupported byBy ReutersWASHINGTON — The U.S. Supreme Court on Thursday handed President Donald Trump a victory by rejecting for the second time in three days a bid by gun rights activists to block his new ban on "bump stock" attachments that enable semi-automatic weapons to fire rapidly.The policy, embraced by Trump in the wake of an October 2017 massacre in Las Vegas in which bump stocks were used, went into effect on Tuesday. The ban is a rare recent instance of gun control at the federal level in a country that has experienced a succession of mass shootings.The court in a brief order refused to grant a temporary stay sought by the group Gun Owners of America and others in a lawsuit filed in Michigan challenging the ban while litigation continues. Chief Justice John Roberts on Tuesday rejected a similar bid to block the policy in a separate legal challenge brought in Washington by individual gun owners and gun rights groups including the Firearms Policy Foundation and Florida Carry Inc. Michael Hammond, Gun Owners of America's legislative counsel, said many owners of the estimated 500,000 bump stocks in the United States would refuse to turn them in despite the ban and related criminal penalties. People caught in possession of bump stocks could face up to 10 years in prison under the policy."GOA will continue to fight the issue in the court system, as the case now returns to the lower courts. We remain convinced that the courts will consign this unlawful, unconstitutional ban to the trash bin of history, where it belongs," Hammond said in a statement, using the group's acronym.A Justice Department spokeswoman said the administration was pleased with the high court's action.Bump stocks use a gun's recoil to bump its trigger, enabling a semiautomatic weapon to fire hundreds of rounds per minute, which can transform it into a machine gun. The Justice Department's regulation followed the lead of many states and retailers that imposed stricter limits on sales of guns and accessories after a deadly shooting at a Florida high school in February 2018.LAS VEGAS SHOOTINGTrump pledged to ban bump stocks soon after a gunman used them in a spree that killed 58 people at a country music festival in Las Vegas. The Justice Department on Dec. 18 announced plans to implement the policy on March 26.The FBI said in January it had found no clear motive for the 64-year-old Las Vegas gunman, Stephen Paddock, in the deadliest mass shooting in modern U.S. history.In the Michigan case, a federal judge already has ruled in favor of the administration. The Cincinnati, Ohio-based 6th U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals refused to put the ban on hold pending appeal. Other plaintiffs in that case include the Gun Owners Foundation, the Virginia Citizens Defense League and three individual gun owners.In the Washington case, a federal judge also upheld the ban, prompting the gun rights advocates to appeal to the U.S. Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit. That court has heard oral arguments but has not yet ruled.Those challenging the policy have argued that the U.S. Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives (ATF) lacks the authority to equate bump stocks with machine guns. One of the laws at the center of the legal dispute was written more than 80 years ago, when Congress restricted access to machine guns during the heyday of American gangsters' use of "tommy guns."AdvertisementSupported byCases like one on the Supreme Court docket this term often lead to more injuries and deaths.By Jonathan M. MetzlDr. Metzl is a professor and the research director at the Safe Tennessee Project.A case before the Supreme Court this term could significantly affect whether densely populated cities like New York have the right to set their own gun policies.At a glance, New York State Rifle and Pistol Association v. City of New York is a limited dispute. It pits residents who have “premises licenses,” which allow them to possess guns only at their homes, against a New York City ordinance that restricts their travel with their weapons to shooting ranges and clubs within city borders. If the petitioners — a gun advocacy group along with three of these individuals — prevail, those with premises licenses will be allowed to take their handguns with them to out-of-town ranges. Not a big deal, right? Actually, it is. The case has implications far broader than sport shooting. If the court decides against the city, New York City and other cities around the country could become far more dangerous places.As a university professor and the research director of a Southern gun violence prevention organization, I’ve spent the past eight years tracking how state and local-level court rulings and legislation promoted as limited in scope lead to sweeping changes in the ways people buy, carry and use firearms. Time and again, I’ve found that seemingly modest relaxation of local gun laws like the one at issue in New York undercut the ability of cities and communities to set their own regulations, and alter ways that people live and die.For instance, in 2007, pro-gun politicians in Missouri repealed a seemingly arcane 1921 law governing the purchase of concealable firearms. Supporters of the repeal (backed by the National Rifle Association) pitched the change as simply easing a tedious and outdated requirement that prospective gun buyers fill out paperwork in person at sheriff’s offices. But this modest action was the first rumbling of an avalanche. Missouri gun proponents built on the repeal to legalize “permitless carry” by anyone 19 years of age or older, nullify local gun-control ordinances, expand “stand your ground” protections and empower citizens to carry weapons into restaurants, bars, streets, schools and seemingly everyplace else. The police even lost the ability to disarm anyone carrying a firearm unless the individual was under arrest. The inability of local government to make gun laws threatened to turn Missouri into the “Wild West,” in the words of an exasperated City Council member in Webster Groves.In Tennessee, N.R.A.-supported politicians pushed through legislation allowing guns in parks. Only after passage did people discover that the law weakened the state’s ability to restrict weapons at concerts and state fairs. A 2017 law in Arkansas permitted guns on college campuses — which made guns legal at Southeast Conference football games and other large sporting events. So-called guns-in-trunks laws in Ohio and some other states allowed employees to store guns and ammunition in their vehicles while at work — followed by jumps in the number of guns stolen out of cars. Sweeping open-carry legislation in Texas meant public libraries could not keep guns out of the stacks.While these changes expand gun rights for certain people, they invariably lead to significant increases in  injuries and deaths. Right-to-carry laws correlate with increases in violent crime and rising homicide and suicide rates, and also raise the likelihood that incidents of conflict like road rage or domestic arguments will turn fatal. For instance, homicides committed with guns in Missouri increased by 25 percent in the three years after the 2007 repeal, and more Missouri guns were recovered in crimes in neighboring states. Gun suicides rose over this period as well. Data from the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention shows that states with the weakest gun laws and highest rates of gun ownership invariably have the highest rates of overall gun mortality. A recent study found that they also have higher rates of mass shootings.Beyond the direct health effects, allowing guns in public spaces changes how we interact with one another. My research shows that people become more wary when they think a stranger might be armed — a mistrust that fuels further gun sales. Racial tensions and stereotypes often accompany this anxiety. “I see white guys walking around Sam’s Club with guns on their hips,” an African-American man in Missouri told me, which he saw as armed racial intimidation.In an ideal world, New York City might serve as a model for effective gun policy. Gun-related injuries and deaths have been falling for the past decade — not coincidentally, over the same period that the city got serious about gun laws. New York has remarkably low rates of gun trauma for a United States city of its size. Municipal and state laws and regulations also effectively limit gun trafficking. Much of this success results from policies that would most likely be in jeopardy should the Rifle and Pistol Association case go against New York — for instance, restrictions on where people can carry guns and prohibitions on tourists’ bringing weapons into the city. Perhaps most important, regulations governing how people carry guns in New York City differ from those applied in parts of the state that have long and respected traditions of firearm ownership, such as in upstate New York.At stake in cases like Rifle and Pistol is the possible nationalization of disastrous policies from pro-gun states — not just loosened gun laws but also pre-emptions of how state or local governments can decide what works best. If the Supreme Court rules in favor of the plaintiffs in any one of these types of cases, the decision could signal that more significant gun control laws might not withstand legal challenges. Additionally, the justices could expand Second Amendment protections beyond the home, an issue left open in previous Supreme Court decisions, and could open the door to overturning longstanding laws governing concealed-carry, gun permitting and other restrictions enacted at the local and state levels.The current composition of the court suggests we should brace for decisions that upend local and state regulations in favor of nationally mandated policies that make it ever easier for people to purchase and carry guns. The nomination of President Trump’s first court appointee, Neil Gorsuch, was buoyed by a $1 million ad campaign by the National Rifle Association. And his second appointee, Brett Kavanaugh, wrote a 2011 circuit court dissent in which he argued that Washington, D.C., could not ban semiautomatic rifles on its streets because the right to bear arms superseded its interest in public safety.Missouri, Tennessee and Washington are not New York City. People are generally not allowed to carry guns around New York City, to safeguard the delicate and at times tense choreography that gives the city its charm. New Yorkers cram into crowded subway cars, brush by one another on busy sidewalks and drive haltingly through traffic-filled streets. This bustle of the everyday builds on often unspoken communal understandings of neighborliness and trust.But imagine a New York where more and more of your neighbors carry guns. If the Supreme Court sides with the complainants in Rifle and Pistol, you won’t need to imagine.Jonathan M. Metzl is a professor at Vanderbilt University and the author of “Dying of Whiteness: How the Politics of Racial Resentment is Killing America’s Heartland.”AdvertisementSupported byBy Sarah MervoshIt took New Zealand just six days to announce an immediate plan to change to the nation’s gun policy after a gunman killed 50 people at two mosques in Christchurch last week.On Thursday, a day after the first victims were laid to rest, Prime Minister Jacinda Ardern announced a national ban on all military-style semiautomatic weapons, all high-capacity ammunition magazines and all parts that allow weapons to be modified into the kinds of guns used in last week’s attack.Ms. Ardern is expected to encounter little resistance in Parliament. The new law could be in place as soon as April 11.It is unclear how the weapons ban will be felt in New Zealand, where there are plenty of guns but relatively few murders. Since 2007, gun homicides have been in the single digits every year except in 2009, when there were 11.But the swift action already stands in stark contrast to the federal response to mass shootings in the United States, which has the highest rate of gun ownership in the world and is one of only a few countries that start with the assumption that gun ownership is a right, not a privilege.After a gunman killed 58 people in Las Vegas in 2017, it took 443 days for the United States to ban bump stocks, the attachments that enable semiautomatic rifles to fire in sustained, rapid bursts, which the gunman used in the attack. And after a mass shooting at a high school in Parkland, Fla., last year led to a wave of student activism, the House of Representatives voted to require background checks for all gun purchasers in February. It was the first significant gun control bill to clear the chamber in a quarter of a century, but it was unlikely to even be taken up in the Republican-controlled Senate.In most countries, mass shootings account for a small proportion of gun deaths. But they are often the political impetus for legislative change that can help prevent other kinds of gun violence, including intimate-partner violence and suicide.Here is a look at how some other countries took action after mass shootings.____Ms. Ardern said the overhauls planned in New Zealand were partially inspired by changes Australia made after a mass shooting there in 1996.After a gunman with a semiautomatic rifle killed 35 people near a popular tourist site in the Tasmanian town of Port Arthur, John Howard, Australia’s conservative prime minister at the time, introduced a federal law to officially make guns a privilege, not a right. Gun owners were forced to provide a valid reason for owning a weapon, such as farming or hunting. Licensing rules were tightened, a 28-day waiting period for gun purchases was imposed and a national gun registry was established.The overhaul also severely restricted firearms, including a ban on almost all automatic and semiautomatic rifles, as well as shotguns. Australia bought back more than 650,000 firearms, to the resentment of many rural gun owners.Australia has not had a shooting as deadly as the Port Arthur massacre since 1996. Research shows the country also saw a decline in homicide and suicide after the legislative change, although researchers disagree about whether the ban can be credited for reducing homicides, which had already been declining.Australia is a much smaller country than the United States and also had fewer barriers to enacting gun control: There is no constitutional right to bear arms, for example, and there are no pro-gun lobbying groups with the influence of the National Rifle Association.____In 1987, a gunman in the southern English town of Hungerford killed 16 people, leading to tough British laws that required shotgun owners to register their weapons and prohibited semiautomatic weapons.Nearly a decade later, another gunman walked into a primary school in Dublane, Scotland, and killed 16 small children and their teacher. The gunman had been granted permits for all four guns used in the shooting, including two semiautomatic pistols.Afterward, the British government took action to limit gun ownership by civilians. By the end of 1997, Parliament had outlawed the private ownership of nearly all handguns.____In 2002, a 19-year-old expelled student returned to his high school in Erfurt, in eastern Germany, armed, and killed 16 people.That year, the German government tightened gun laws, including raising the legal age for carrying sports weapons to 21 from 18 and requiring gun buyers under 25 to present certification that they are medically and psychologically fit.Germany strengthened gun laws even further after another shooting in 2009, when a 17-year-old got his hands on one of his father’s guns and went on a rampage at his school in Winnenden, in southwest Germany, killing 15 people. The new regulations included allowing for random checks on weapons owners.As of 2015, gun-related crimes were far more unusual in Germany than in the United States.____Canada has had tough restrictions on handguns and automatic weapons since the 1930s. But the rules were expanded to include rifles and shotguns after a gunman with a semiautomatic hunting rifle stormed an engineering school in Montreal in 1989.Shouting “I hate feminists,” he separated the women from the men and killed 14 female students before turning the gun on himself.After that shooting, rifles and other long guns had to be registered like handguns and a majority of semiautomatic weapons. Gun owners were also required to obtain a license.But the long gun registry was unpopular in rural and northern areas, and, over the objections of police forces and some provinces, was abolished in 2012.Efforts to keep track of rifle and shotgun sales — the majority of firearms in Canada — continue to be much debated. The province of Quebec introduced its own long gun registry last year.Max Fisher contributed reportingFollow Sarah Mervosh on Twitter: @smervoshAdvertisementSupported byBy Catie EdmondsonWASHINGTON — The House voted on Wednesday to require background checks for all gun purchasers, including those at gun shows and on the internet — the first significant gun control bill to clear the chamber in a quarter of a century.The 240-to-190 vote is the first of two gun control measures expected to be put to House lawmakers this week, a turning point in gun legislation after 25 years when the National Rifle Association dominated the chamber. Last year’s massacre at Marjory Stoneman Douglas High School in Parkland, Fla., prompted a wave of student-led activism that pressed Democrats to unite around gun control, and the activists cheered when the measure cleared the 218-vote threshold for passage.The Democratic victory was tempered, however, after Republicans prevailed in adding a provision that would require the F.B.I. to alert Immigration and Customs Enforcement if an undocumented immigrant tried to obtain a firearm. Twenty-six Democrats, primarily from moderate or Republican-leaning districts, broke party lines to support the measure.But Speaker Nancy Pelosi of California and other Democrats insisted that would ultimately have little import.“Finally, we have done more than thoughts and prayers. Finally, we have taken a vote to expand background checks and help save lives,” said Representative Mike Thompson, Democrat of California, who leads the congressional Gun Violence Prevention Task Force.“For six long years, we worked on this issue, and the previous majority would not even let us have a hearing, let alone a vote to expand background checks,” Mr. Thompson said. “Today is a new day, and the show of support on both sides of the aisle for this important legislation is humbling.”More than 100 student activists, gun violence survivors and advocates — clad in a sea of orange scarves, ties and blazers to denote their support for the legislation — looked on from the House gallery as lawmakers advanced Mr. Thompson’s legislation, the Bipartisan Background Checks Act. It seeks to close loopholes that allow individuals to buy firearms on the internet or at gun shows without having to pass a background check.“We’ve been working toward this legislation for over a year now,” said Laura Kirk, 18, and a founder of a Students Demand Action high school chapter in Virginia. “It’s incredible to see our work translate into tangible results.”The Democrat-led House is expected to pass legislation on Thursday that would extend the amount of time the F.B.I. has to conduct background checks of gun purchasers, to 10 business days from three. It is an attempt to close the so-called Charleston loophole, which allowed Dylann Roof, the white supremacist who killed nine people in 2015 at a historically black church in Charleston, S.C., to buy a handgun even though he should have been barred from purchasing the weapon.It is “unlikely” that either measure will be taken up in the Republican-controlled Senate, Senator John Thune of South Dakota, the No. 3 Republican, said on Tuesday. House Republicans have flatly condemned both pieces of legislation, arguing the measures would be both ineffective and infringe on law-abiding citizens’ rights.The House bill that was approved on Wednesday “is taking the fears and concerns of a nation over gun violence and perpetrating a fraud on them,” said Representative Doug Collins of Georgia, the top Republican on the Judiciary Committee. “The reality is nothing in this bill would have stopped Parkland, or stopped any of the other violence we have seen.”Gunmen at the center of a number of high-profile mass shootings passed background checks and legally purchased the firearms they used. But gun control activists have praised both background check measures as a critical first step in a broader drive to reduce gun violence.“America’s current background check system is like having two types of security lines at the airport: one for people who are willing to be screened, and one you can waltz right through carrying whatever you want,” said John Feinblatt, the president of Everytown for Gun Safety. “We applaud the House for moving so quickly.”Once divided on the issue, House Democrats returned to the majority, promising meaningful action on gun control, with aid from advocacy groups backing candidates who made the issue central to their campaigns. Michael Bloomberg, the former mayor of New York, spent around $100 million in the midterms last year to elect gun control supporters, according to Everytown.The group will continue its push this week with $400,000 in digital ads urging lawmakers to support the legislation as it tries to break through the Senate.One of the new freshman Democrats supported by Mr. Bloomberg, Representative Lucy McBath of Georgia, had a 17-year-old son, Jordan, killed by gun violence.“Turning her grief and her tragedy into action and courage, to run for Congress, to stand on this floor and share her personal story with us — that takes real courage,” Ms. Pelosi said from the House floor, adding that the statistics of gun violence victims “spell out the story, but it is the human, personal stories that change minds.”Wednesday’s vote, Ms. Pelosi said, sends “a clear message to the families of those who have lost their loved ones to gun violence, that we have crossed a threshold here today to reduce gun violence in our country.”The Republican measure attached to the bill would present a problem if a version of the gun bill cleared the Senate. The measure has angered liberals in the House, who would like to see it removed in House-Senate negotiations.AdvertisementSupported byBy Catie EdmondsonWASHINGTON — The House voted on Wednesday to require background checks for all gun purchasers, including those at gun shows and on the internet — the first significant gun control bill to clear the chamber in a quarter of a century.The 240-to-190 vote is the first of two gun control measures expected to be put to House lawmakers this week, a turning point in gun legislation after 25 years when the National Rifle Association dominated the chamber. Last year’s massacre at Marjory Stoneman Douglas High School in Parkland, Fla., prompted a wave of student-led activism that pressed Democrats to unite around gun control, and the activists cheered when the measure cleared the 218-vote threshold for passage.The Democratic victory was tempered, however, after Republicans prevailed in adding a provision that would require the F.B.I. to alert Immigration and Customs Enforcement if an undocumented immigrant tried to obtain a firearm. Twenty-six Democrats, primarily from moderate or Republican-leaning districts, broke party lines to support the measure.But Speaker Nancy Pelosi of California and other Democrats insisted that would ultimately have little import.“Finally, we have done more than thoughts and prayers. Finally, we have taken a vote to expand background checks and help save lives,” said Representative Mike Thompson, Democrat of California, who leads the congressional Gun Violence Prevention Task Force.“For six long years, we worked on this issue, and the previous majority would not even let us have a hearing, let alone a vote to expand background checks,” Mr. Thompson said. “Today is a new day, and the show of support on both sides of the aisle for this important legislation is humbling.”More than 100 student activists, gun violence survivors and advocates — clad in a sea of orange scarves, ties and blazers to denote their support for the legislation — looked on from the House gallery as lawmakers advanced Mr. Thompson’s legislation, the Bipartisan Background Checks Act. It seeks to close loopholes that allow individuals to buy firearms on the internet or at gun shows without having to pass a background check.“We’ve been working toward this legislation for over a year now,” said Laura Kirk, 18, and a founder of a Students Demand Action high school chapter in Virginia. “It’s incredible to see our work translate into tangible results.”The Democrat-led House is expected to pass legislation on Thursday that would extend the amount of time the F.B.I. has to conduct background checks of gun purchasers, to 10 business days from three. It is an attempt to close the so-called Charleston loophole, which allowed Dylann Roof, the white supremacist who killed nine people in 2015 at a historically black church in Charleston, S.C., to buy a handgun even though he should have been barred from purchasing the weapon.It is “unlikely” that either measure will be taken up in the Republican-controlled Senate, Senator John Thune of South Dakota, the No. 3 Republican, said on Tuesday. House Republicans have flatly condemned both pieces of legislation, arguing the measures would be both ineffective and infringe on law-abiding citizens’ rights.The House bill that was approved on Wednesday “is taking the fears and concerns of a nation over gun violence and perpetrating a fraud on them,” said Representative Doug Collins of Georgia, the top Republican on the Judiciary Committee. “The reality is nothing in this bill would have stopped Parkland, or stopped any of the other violence we have seen.”Gunmen at the center of a number of high-profile mass shootings passed background checks and legally purchased the firearms they used. But gun control activists have praised both background check measures as a critical first step in a broader drive to reduce gun violence.“America’s current background check system is like having two types of security lines at the airport: one for people who are willing to be screened, and one you can waltz right through carrying whatever you want,” said John Feinblatt, the president of Everytown for Gun Safety. “We applaud the House for moving so quickly.”Once divided on the issue, House Democrats returned to the majority, promising meaningful action on gun control, with aid from advocacy groups backing candidates who made the issue central to their campaigns. Michael Bloomberg, the former mayor of New York, spent around $100 million in the midterms last year to elect gun control supporters, according to Everytown.The group will continue its push this week with $400,000 in digital ads urging lawmakers to support the legislation as it tries to break through the Senate.One of the new freshman Democrats supported by Mr. Bloomberg, Representative Lucy McBath of Georgia, had a 17-year-old son, Jordan, killed by gun violence.“Turning her grief and her tragedy into action and courage, to run for Congress, to stand on this floor and share her personal story with us — that takes real courage,” Ms. Pelosi said from the House floor, adding that the statistics of gun violence victims “spell out the story, but it is the human, personal stories that change minds.”Wednesday’s vote, Ms. Pelosi said, sends “a clear message to the families of those who have lost their loved ones to gun violence, that we have crossed a threshold here today to reduce gun violence in our country.”The Republican measure attached to the bill would present a problem if a version of the gun bill cleared the Senate. The measure has angered liberals in the House, who would like to see it removed in House-Senate negotiations.AdvertisementSupported byBy ReutersMEXICO CITY — Mexican police and federal officials on Saturday detained 107 Central American migrants seeking to enter the United States in the border city of Reynosa, the government of the northeastern state of Tamaulipas said.Following a tip-off, state police intercepted a group of migrants who had been taken out of trucks in a western part of the city, which lies across the border from McAllen, Texas.At the scene, unidentified gunmen began shooting at police, and one of the attackers was killed in the ensuing exchange of fire, the Tamaulipas government said in a statement.The statement said police seized a firearm and cartridges but did not provide details on whether any gunmen were arrested or who they were.Separately, police discovered a group of Central American men and women on the edge of a highway in Reynosa. They called in federal migration officials, who are now reviewing the legal status of the Central Americans detained, the government said.The National Migration Institute counted 51 Guatemalans, 47 Hondurans and 9 Salvadorans detained in total, it added.AdvertisementSupported byBy ReutersSYDNEY — Australia's nationalist One Nation party allegedly sought millions of dollars from the U.S. gun lobby and discussed weakening the country's strict gun control laws with the U.S. National Rifle Association (NRA), Al Jazeera reported.Posing as the head of a fake Australian pro-gun lobby, Al Jazeera secretly filmed top officials from Pauline Hanson's One Nation allegedly meeting NRA executives in Washington in 2018. It also reported the One Nation officials discussing the possibility of raising A$20 million ($14.22 million) prior to a meeting with a U.S. gun lobby supporter.Concerned about foreign influence in Australian politics, particularly from China, the government introduced laws banning foreign political donations in November last year. The One Nation meetings took place in September."Reports that senior One Nation officials courted foreign political donations from the U.S. gun lobby to influence our elections and undermine our gun laws that keep us safe are deeply concerning," Australian Prime Minister Scott Morrison Tweeted on Tuesday.One Nation confirmed in a statement their two representatives attended the meetings, but there was no evidence in the Al Jazeera TV report, aired late on Monday, that a donation was made.Calls and emails to the NRA headquarters in Virginia were not immediately returned.Australia has some of the world's strictest firearm laws, implemented after a lone gunman killed 35 people at Port Arthur on the island state of Tasmania in 1996.Australia banned semi-automatic weapons, launched a firearm buy-back scheme after the massacre, and imposed strict licensing rules which require weapons to be locked up when not in use.Al Jazeera said the report was three years in the making.In the report, One Nation's chief-of-staff James Ashby and Queensland state leader Steve Dickson can be seen allegedly telling NRA officials that with its help the party could win enough seats to gain the balance of power in Australia's upper house of parliament."We get the balance of power, very simply that means that we have the testicles of the government in our hand at every given stage," says Dickson. "Guns, in the scheme of things, are still going to be the be-all and end-all."In another meeting with a U.S. gun lobby supporter, Dickson says: "It's going to get down to money at the end of the day. We can change the voting system in our country, the way people operate, if we've got the money to do it."Ashby confirmed One Nation had been invited to attend the meetings but he accused Al Jazeera of interfering in Australia's looming national election, due in May."The matter has been referred to ASIO (the Australian Security Intelligence Organisation) and the Australian Federal Police due to concerns of foreign interference into Australian politics in the lead-up to the imminent federal election," Ashby said in the emailed statement.The footage allegedly records an NRA lobbyist telling both Dickson and Ashby that it would benefit the U.S. pro-gun movement if Australia's gun laws were relaxed."That helps us because the biggest argument we get from folks is, 'Well look at Australia'," he says.The role of One Nation in promoting right-wing nationalism in Australia has come under the spotlight in recent days following the killing of 50 Muslims in New Zealand, allegedly by an Australian white supremacist.Nationalists have struggled to gain a significant voting bloc in Australia's parliament, although One Nation did wield considerable influence in the upper house between 2016 and 2018.AdvertisementSupported byBy Reuters(Reuters) - The U.S. Supreme Court on Friday handed another setback to gun rights advocates challenging President Donald Trump's ban on "bump stock" devices that enable semi-automatic weapons to fire rapidly.With two conservative justices dissenting, the court refused to temporarily exempt from the ban a group of plaintiffs including the Firearms Policy Foundation while their legal challenge continues to be litigated in Washington.The Supreme Court twice previously rejected requests by gun rights advocates - in the case in the U.S. capital and a similar one in Michigan - to temporarily block the ban while legal challenges proceed in lower courts.The ban, which went into effect on March 26, was embraced by Trump following a 2017 massacre in Las Vegas that killed 58 people in which the gunman used bump stocks.The U.S. Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit had temporarily blocked the ban's enforcement against the specific challengers in the litigation it was handling, but on April 1 ruled in the administration's favor and refused to lift the ban. The challengers then returned to the Supreme Court to try to prevent the policy from applying specifically to them. In Friday's order, Justices Clarence Thomas and Neil Gorsuch said they would have granted the request to exempt the challengers.Bump stocks use a gun's recoil to bump its trigger, enabling a semiautomatic weapon to fire hundreds of rounds per minute, which can transform it into a machine gun.AdvertisementSupported byBy Liam Stack and Jacey FortinRead Thursday’s story on the shooting at a bank in Florida that police say left five dead.The call came in at 12:37 p.m. Wednesday. A 21-year old gunman, clad in a T-shirt that bore the image of four scythe-wielding grim reapers on horseback, wanted the police to know that he had just opened fire in a bank in the small city of Sebring, Fla., the police said.“I have shot five people,” he told a dispatcher, according to a police statement. There were only five people in the bank at the time, the police said, and they all died.When the Sebring Police Department and the Highlands County Sheriff’s Office responded to the SunTrust Bank branch on U.S. Route 27, they said, they found the shooter barricaded inside. What followed was a tense standoff with police negotiators that ended when an armored police vehicle rammed into the bank doors, shattering their glass, video footage shows.The police said in a statement that negotiators and members of the SWAT team “persuaded the suspect to surrender.” Video from the scene shows officers inching toward the broken glass with their firearms drawn. They soon emerged with the suspect in handcuffs.“We are sorry to learn that we have at least five victims, people who were senselessly murdered, as a result of his act in this bank,” Chief Karl Hoglund of the Sebring police said at a brief news conference late Wednesday afternoon in this city 80 miles south of Orlando.He identified the man in custody as Zephen Xaver, 21, a resident of Sebring. The police said they were still investigating the motive for what the police chief called “coldblooded murder.”Mr. Xaver was being held at Highlands County Jail and was charged with five counts of first-degree premeditated murder.At a court hearing on Thursday morning, Judge Anthony Ritenour ordered him to be held without bail. Mr. Xaver, who was wearing a black and white jumpsuit, stood before the judge and responded, “Yes, sir,” when asked whether he had no income or assets. Judge Ritenour granted a public defender to represent Mr. Xaver.On Wednesday, Chief Hoglund told reporters that investigators had not finished identifying the victims. “This is a very dynamic and ongoing investigation,” he added.Mr. Xaver had recently been training to work as a correctional officer at Avon Park Correctional Institution, a prison about 20 miles north of the bank where the shooting occurred, said Patrick Manderfield, a spokesman for the Florida Department of Corrections.He was hired as a trainee in November and resigned on Jan. 9, Mr. Manderfield said. He had no disciplinary record with the department.Gov. Ron DeSantis, who traveled to the area on Wednesday afternoon, posted a  message from him and his wife, Casey DeSantis, on Twitter.“This is a terrible day for Sebring, Highlands County and for the state of Florida,” Mr. DeSantis said. “Casey and I extend our most sincere condolences and sympathies to the families and loved ones of the victims. The people of Florida stand with the community of Sebring.”The governor said the gunman was “an individual that needs to face very swift and exacting justice.”Bill Rogers, the chairman and C.E.O. of SunTrust, said in a statement that the company was “working with officials and dedicating ourselves to fully addressing the needs of all the individuals and families involved.” He said the company was “deeply saddened” by the loss of life at the bank.Sebring, a sleepy city of about 10,000 whose meandering borders are dotted with lakes, boasts a historic downtown and an international raceway. On Wednesday night, it was swarming with wailing police cars, buzzing helicopters and media vehicles.“We have a whole lot more questions right now than answers,” said Don Elwell, a member of the Highlands County Board of County Commissioners. Both the shootings and the lack of information had left the community in shock, he said.“For us — I have some family in Las Vegas, where there was that big shooting, and they said, ‘We’re sorry to welcome you to our club,’” Mr. Elwell said on Wednesday, referring to a 2017 shooting that killed 59 people. “Obviously that was a different scale, but here in little Sebring it might as well be the same.”The episode on Wednesday is just the latest of several high-profile shootings in Florida that have roiled the state in recent months.Last February, a young gunman barged into his former high school in Parkland, Fla., opening fire on terrified students and teachers and leaving 17 dead. In August, a man with a handgun killed two people at a video-game tournament in Jacksonville, Fla., before fatally shooting himself. And last fall, a man walked into a yoga studio in Tallahassee, Fla., and shot six people — two fatally — before killing himself.Florida, which bears the official nickname the Sunshine State, is sometimes referred to as the Gunshine State because of its traditionally loose restrictions on firearms. But in March 2018, in the wake of the Parkland shooting, Rick Scott, who was then the governor, signed an array of gun limits into law that included raising the minimum age to purchase a firearm to 21 and extending the waiting period to three days.It was the most aggressive action on gun control taken in the state in decades, and the National Rifle Association almost immediately sued.Wendy Thompson, Matt Stevens and Julia Jacobs contributed reporting. Jack Begg contributed research.AdvertisementSupported byBy Serge F. KovaleskiWhen the gunman in the Las Vegas mass shooting died, he left behind a hoard of guns and firearm accessories in his two Nevada homes and the hotel suite he used as a perch for his attack.All told, the gunman, Stephen Paddock, owned 50 guns, from pistols to high-powered long arms, and almost 40 firearm components including scopes, a red dot sight, bi-pods and rifle cases. A special administrator appointed by a state court judge to determine the value of Mr. Paddock’s estate said in a recent report that the guns and equipment were worth about $62,340.Now, the main lawyer involved in passing on Mr. Paddock’s nearly $1.4 million estate to the families of the 58 people he slaughtered at an outdoor country music festival is facing a quandary. Should the firearms be sold to raise as much money as possible for the bereaved, or would it be more appropriate to destroy the guns in an emblematic rejection of the kind of violence that Mr. Paddock carried out?“The money that would come from selling the guns is not a huge amount, but it would help to make a difference in peoples’ lives,” said Alice Denton, the lawyer for the special administrator in the estate case.On the other hand, Ms. Denton added, “Destroying the guns would send more of a symbolic message to the world that weapons like these should not be sold at any price if death or harm to innocent people cannot be prevented.”She said the estate would solicit feedback from the families of those killed and review applicable laws before a decision would be made on how to proceed. In the meantime, the guns and accessories are in the possession of the F.B.I.In an email message, a spokeswoman for the bureau’s Las Vegas field office, Sandra Breault, declined to comment on whether the F.B.I. would return some or all of the weapons to the estate. “This part of the investigation is still ongoing,” she wrote.Mr. Paddock died without a will. Lawyers for the victims encouraged Mr. Paddock’s mother — who, under Nevada law, became the heir by default — to give his assets to the estates of the 58 people killed by her son. The mother, Irene Hudson, transferred her right to inherit the estate in March of last year.In addition to those killed, hundreds of others were injured in the shooting. However, lawyers say the compensation should go to the loved ones of the dead rather than the injured, saying the money would have greater impact on their lives than if the large number of people hurt in the rampage were also beneficiaries.The conundrum over what to do with Mr. Paddock’s firearms underscores the increasingly complex and delicate considerations that have arisen for victims and their relatives as mass shootings have become a more frequent part of American life today.The case also comes as an unparalleled number of gun control laws were passed in states around the country in the 15 months since the Las Vegas shooting on Oct. 1, 2017.Mynda Smith, 43, whose older sister was fatally shot by Mr. Paddock, said she saw no point in destroying the guns he owned.“My initial reaction is that destroying them is not going to change anything and it won’t bring any goodness,” Ms. Smith said. “But if some good can come out of selling them, I am for it.”For Kyle Taylor, 32, whose father died in the massacre, deciding on the best use of Mr. Paddock’s weapons was “a moral dilemma.”“The more money you could raise to help the families is great,” Mr. Taylor said. “But the idea of receiving money from equipment that was used by someone who took so many lives is creepy and unsettling.”In the special administrator’s inventory of the estate, 23 rifles and a revolver were listed as having been found in Mr. Paddock’s room at the Mandalay Bay Resort and Casino. They were given a total value of $41,050.At Mr. Paddock’s home in Mesquite, Nev., $18,439 worth of guns and accessories — seven rifles, seven shotguns and five handguns — were found. And two shotguns and five handguns, with a combined value of just over $2,800, were collected from his Reno house, the inventory report showed.Overall, each of the 58 families would receive about $24,000 once Mr. Paddock’s estate is divided up equally. Included in that figure would be a payout of close to $1,100 per family if the firearms were to be sold.The cache of guns that belonged to Mr. Paddock — who attained significant wealth through high-stakes gambling and modest real estate deals before he lost much of it — is just one piece of his estate. It also includes a pair of houses, both in scenic retirement communities, an investment property and bank accounts.Among the other items in the estate are two gaming vouchers, totaling more than $30,000, from the Mandalay Bay. It was from an upper floor room in the hotel that Mr. Paddock started firing at concertgoers on the Vegas Strip, in what was the worst mass shooting in modern American history. He then took his own life.The inventory of Mr. Paddock’s estate also showed that he had $455,758 in 13 bank and brokerage accounts.The situation with the Paddock weapons is not unprecedented. When the federal government sought to hold an internet auction of personal items belonging to Theodore J. Kaczynski, who was sentenced to life in prison for the Unabomber crimes, several victims pursuing restitution from him were initially reluctant to agree to such a sale.Although the money from the sale of Mr. Kaczynski’s writings, sunglasses, clothing and other possessions would go to them, the victims feared that the auction would bring Mr. Kaczynski more publicity and further expose their suffering. One victim who was not seeking restitution said he hoped that Mr. Kaczynski’s property would be destroyed or sealed for at least a century and then made available to “scholars of depravity.”The auction went ahead in 2011 and raised more than $232,000 for the victims. Mr. Kaczynski carried out 16 mail bombings from 1978 to 1995 that killed three people and injured 28.Though the matter of how best to handle Mr. Paddock’s guns remains unresolved, the estate has made progress in other areas. On Thursday, the judge overseeing the estate case approved the sale of Mr. Paddock’s Mesquite home to an Oregon couple for $425,000.His residence in Reno is still on the market for $374,900, a reduction from the original listing price of $399,000 in July.Bernadette Jones, who, with her husband, Daniel, bought the Mesquite home, said in an interview that the property met their criteria and that they were not spooked by the fact that it had belonged to one of America’s most notorious mass murderers, who stored many of his guns there.“There is room to build a pool, it is a nice clean house that has hardly been lived in and there are nice neighbors who have been through a lot,” Ms. Jones said.She added: “We feel that our discernment is very good, and if we felt that things were not right, we would have walked away. If he had any personal items in there, buying would have been out of the question.”The Joneses, who are in their 60s, had been looking to relocate to the area since the summer of 2017 to escape the dreary weather of Albany, Ore.Ms. Denton, the lawyer, said that the 58 families would not see any money raised by the estate for at least another year to give creditors time to file any claims.Although lawyers for many of the surviving victims have said their clients will not sue the estate, in order to preserve it, Ms. Denton pointed out that “the agreements are not in writing and they can change their minds at any time.”AdvertisementSupported byBy Julia JacobsA man suspected in the killing of the Grammy-nominated rapper and community advocate Nipsey Hussle was charged on Thursday with murder, the Los Angeles County district attorney’s office said.The man, Eric R. Holder Jr., 29, was arrested on Tuesday, two days after Nipsey Hussle was fatally shot while standing outside a store he owned in South Los Angeles with two other men. Prosecutors charged Mr. Holder with one count of murder, two counts of attempted murder and one count of possession of a firearm by a felon.If convicted, Mr. Holder would face a maximum sentence of life in prison. He pleaded not guilty to the charges at his arraignment on Thursday, a spokesman for the district attorney’s office said.Mr. Holder’s defense lawyer, Chris Darden, declined to comment.According to video evidence cited by the police, Mr. Holder walked up to Nipsey Hussle and the two men who were with him several times before leaving and returning with a handgun. He fired several times before fleeing in a white Chevy Cruze that was driven by an unidentified woman.The chief of the Los Angeles Police Department, Michel R. Moore, said at a news conference on Tuesday that investigators believed the shooting was rooted in a personal dispute between Nipsey Hussle and Mr. Holder. Chief Moore said that Mr. Holder was believed to be a member of a gang, but that the police did not think the shooting was related to gang rivalries.The death of Nipsey Hussle, who was born Ermias Joseph Asghedom, prompted grief and outrage by residents in the Crenshaw neighborhood, where the rapper grew up and maintained a regular presence even after he became a successful artist. His fans held deep appreciation for his financial investment in the community, which has long struggled with violent crime, and saw him as a symbol of hope and self-improvement.AdvertisementSupported byBy ReutersSYDNEY — Australia's nationalist One Nation party allegedly sought millions of dollars from the U.S. gun lobby and discussed weakening the country's strict gun control laws with the U.S. National Rifle Association, Al Jazeera reported.Posing as the head of a fake Australian pro-gun lobby, Al Jazeera secretly filmed top officials from Pauline Hanson's One Nation allegedly meeting NRA executives in Washington in 2018. The One Nation officials also discussed the possibility of raising A$20 million ($14.22 million) prior to a meeting with a U.S. gun lobby supporter, the report said.Concerned about foreign influence in Australian politics, particularly from China, the government introduced laws banning foreign political donations in November last year. The One Nation meetings took place in September."Reports that senior One Nation officials courted foreign political donations from the U.S. gun lobby to influence our elections and undermine our gun laws that keep us safe are deeply concerning," Australian Prime Minister Scott Morrison said in a post on Twitter on Tuesday.The two party representatives recorded in the Al Jazeera report, chief of staff James Ashby and Queensland state leader Steve Dickson, confirmed they attended the meetings but denied accepting a donation from the NRA."These conversations with the NRA were to look at nothing more than their (campaign) techniques," Ashby told reporters in Brisbane. "This was not about sourcing money from the NRA."NRA spokesman Andrew Arulanandam referred questions about Al Jazeera's report to the group's lobbying arm, the NRA Institute for Legislative Action. NRA-ILA spokeswoman Jennifer Baker said the group had no comment on the report.Australia has some of the world's strictest firearm laws, implemented after a lone gunman killed 35 people at Port Arthur on the island state of Tasmania in 1996.Australia banned semi-automatic weapons, launched a firearm buy-back scheme after the massacre, and imposed strict licensing rules which require weapons to be locked up when not in use.The role of One Nation in promoting right-wing nationalism in Australia has come under the spotlight in recent days following the killing of 50 Muslims in New Zealand earlier in March, allegedly by an Australian white supremacist. Al Jazeera said on its website the report was three years in the making.In the report, Ashby and Dickson can be heard allegedly telling NRA officials that with their help, the party could win enough seats to gain the balance of power in Australia's upper house of parliament."We get the balance of power, very simply that means that we have the testicles of the government in our hand at every given stage," says Dickson. "Guns, in the scheme of things, are still going to be the be-all and end-all."In another meeting with a U.S. gun lobby supporter, Dickson says: "It's going to get down to money at the end of the day. We can change the voting system in our country, the way people operate, if we've got the money to do it."The footage allegedly records an NRA lobbyist telling both Dickson and Ashby that it would benefit the U.S. pro-gun movement if Australia's gun laws were relaxed."That helps us because the biggest argument we get from folks is, 'Well, look at Australia,'" he says.In an emailed statement to Reuters, Ashby described the recordings as "skullduggery" and said he had referred the matter to the Australian Security Intelligence Organisation and the Australian Federal Police over concerns of foreign political interference in the lead-up to a federal election in May.Al Jazeera is Qatar's state-owned broadcaster. The head of its investigative unit who reported the segment, Peter Charley, said the allegation he was acting on behalf of a foreign government were "risible.""We're journalists doing a job," Charley told Reuters by telephone. "The original intention was to infiltrate the NRA. It was only quite late in the game that One Nation came into the frame."Nationalists have struggled to gain a significant voting bloc in Australia's parliament, although One Nation did wield considerable influence in the upper house between 2016 and 2018.The party fractured last year with several resignations, but it is hoping to regroup at the coming national election, with its support base being largely rural voters disillusioned with the major parties which they accuse of being city-focused. AdvertisementSupported byBy The Associated PressBALTIMORE — A Baltimore man who police say repeatedly threatened to kill officers responding to a report of an assault was found dead early Monday after at least one officer fired shots at him during an hourslong barricade.Police Commissioner Michael Harrison, who reviewed footage from cameras worn by police, told reporters at least two shots apparently were fired after officers arrived.When asked if the suspect was armed, Harrison said investigators were still processing the scene in northwest Baltimore."I'm confident that there is information for the officers to believe that he did have a firearm. But we have not interviewed the officers as of yet," he told reporters at police headquarters.Harrison said the officers who responded late Sunday interacted with the man by a door before he retreated inside, and "repeatedly threatened to kill the officers if they came any closer."Shortly after midnight, the suspect emerged by a rear door and one of the officers fired in his direction, causing him to retreat inside again, Harrison said. No officers were injured. Police have not identified the names or races of the responding officers.Hostage negotiators and SWAT team officers were activated. After several hours, a woman came outside the home and told police the suspect was "sleeping" inside, according to Harrison.SWAT team members then found the suspect unresponsive and he was pronounced dead at the scene.AdvertisementSupported byBy Reuters(Reuters) - Police are investigating a fire at a Southern California mosque on Sunday as a possible arson and hate crime after fresh graffiti on the driveway mentioned the mass shootings at two mosques in New Zealand, local media reported.Police and firefighters were called to the Islamic Center of Escondido, north of San Diego, about 3:15 a.m. (1015 GMT) on Sunday about a fire that blackened an outside wall, the San Diego Tribune and other media reported.Congregants at the center smelled smoke, spotted the fire and put it out before it caused serious damage, before firefighters arrived, media reported.No one was injured.But on the mosque's driveway, police found fresh graffiti that referenced the March 15 shootings at two mosques in Christchurch, New Zealand, that left 50 people dead and others seriously injured from a gunman who published a hate-filled manifesto on social media, police told the press.The exact words in the graffiti message were not released by police.Morning prayers at the mosque were canceled as law enforcement investigated the scene.Escondido Police Lieutenant Chris Lick told the Tribune and other media that it appeared that a chemical accelerant was used to set the fire.No suspects were reported.Along with local police and fire officials, agents with the FBI and Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives are investigating the case as both an arson and a hate crime, media reported.Yusef Miller, a spokesman for the Islamic community in Escondido told the Tribune that people at mosques across the region need to remain vigilant."Everyone is on edge," he told the paper. ""When they connected it to New Zealand, it gave us more of a mortal fear that something outlandish might happen."AdvertisementSupported byBy Sheryl Gay Stolberg and Catie EdmondsonWASHINGTON — House Democrats are poised this week to adopt legislation requiring background checks for all gun purchasers, the first major expansion of gun control laws in a quarter century and the opening salvo in a broader drive to address an issue that once sharply divided the party.In back-to-back votes, the House will take up two separate background check measures. On Wednesday it will consider the Bipartisan Background Checks Act, which would require background checks for all firearm sales, including those sold at gun shows and online. On Thursday it will turn to the Enhanced Background Checks Act, which would extend the time allotted for the F.B.I. to conduct background checks.The action in the House reflects dramatic changes in the political climate over guns that culminated with last year’s midterm elections. A string of mass shootings, coupled with student-led activism after last year’s massacre at Marjory Stoneman Douglas High School in Parkland, Fla., produced a wave of Democratic candidates — including some from Republican-leaning districts — who ran and won while calling for limits on access to guns.“It’s a real moment for the nation,” said one of those Democrats, Representative Lucy McBath of Georgia, who began advocating for gun control after her 17-year-old son, Jordan Davis, was shot dead in 2012. “We’re at a critical mass now where families are just saying they’ve had enough.”Both measures face dim prospects in the Republican-controlled Senate. Senator John Thune of South Dakota, the No. 3 Republican, said Tuesday it was “unlikely” the Senate would take them up.But this week’s House action is still significant. The last time Congress passed major gun control legislation was 1994, when an assault weapons ban was enacted, along with the so-called Brady Bill, which required background checks on most gun sales.Democrats were punished roundly at the polls that year, with Republicans taking control of Congress and not relinquishing it for 12 years. For years afterward, Democrats were skittish about taking up gun-related bills.The assault weapons ban expired in 2004, when Congress was under Republican control. When Democrats held the House from 2007 to 2011, no gun legislation was passed.“There are still differences within our party as to how far we want to go,” Representative Steny D. Hoyer of Maryland, the House Democratic leader, told reporters on Tuesday. But Mr. Hoyer said he is convinced that the two bills being voted on this week have the support of the “overwhelming majority of the American people.”Robin Lloyd, the managing director of the Giffords Law Center to Prevent Gun Violence, praised House Democrats for prioritizing the measures, noting that just a year ago, the Republican-controlled House tried — but failed — to pass legislation that would have required states to recognize concealed weapons permits issued in other states, effectively creating a national law allowing concealed weapons. That bill is a high priority for the National Rifle Association.“Now we’re having the opposite conversation, and I do think that demonstrates how quickly this shift has happened,” Ms. Lloyd said. “It is a paradigm shift from where we were even 18 months ago.”House Republicans, however, have been scathing in their criticism of the bills.“This bill turns law-abiding citizens into criminals and it’s one more step toward federalized gun registration and ultimately gun confiscation,” said Representative Steve Scalise of Louisiana, the Republican whip, who was shot in the hip and gravely wounded in 2017 when a gunman fired on members of the Republican congressional baseball team practicing in Virginia.Republicans including Mr. Scalise argue that expanding background checks would not have prevented many of the mass shootings that have garnered public attention in recent years. Most of those massacres were carried out with guns purchased legally by gunmen who passed background checks.The bills to expand background checks are the first in what could be a series of measures to address gun violence, said Representative Mike Thompson, Democrat of California, who leads a congressional Gun Violence Prevention Task Force. Mr. Thompson said the group has a “pretty aggressive schedule” and is bringing in experts to advise on what will reduce gun violence.Ms. McBath, a task force member, said the group is also looking at measures to reduce children’s access to guns, and also “red flag laws” that give authorities or household members the ability to seek court orders that would prohibit gun purchases by those deemed a risk to themselves or others.Congress did pass a modest gun-related bill last year, the so-called Fix Nics Act, which required federal agencies and states to do a better job of reporting criminal offenses and other information into the national instant check system, or Nics. And since the Parkland massacre, gun safety advocates have made great strides outside the capital; in 2018, legislators in 26 states and the District of Columbia passed 67 gun safety measures, according to a recent analysis by the Giffords Law Center.The last time Congress considered major gun safety legislation was in 2013, after the massacre that killed 20 children and six adults at the Sandy Hook Elementary School in Newtown, Conn.With survivors of mass shootings looking down from the gallery — and amid cries of “Shame on you!” — the Senate at that time fell short of the 60 votes required to break a filibuster on a bipartisan bill similar to the measure the House will take up Wednesday. That bill’s sponsors, Senators Joe Manchin III, Democrat of West Virginia, and Patrick J. Toomey, Republican of Pennsylvania, did not sound optimistic on Tuesday about the prospects for reviving it.“I need some help,” Mr. Manchin said. “I need some Republican help.”Mr. Toomey said he has been “working to try to find where we could get to consensus.” But, he added, “It’s looking like it’s an uphill battle to get 60 votes.”Thursday marks the 25th anniversary of the Brady Bill, named for James. S. Brady, the White House press secretary injured during an assassination attempt on President Ronald Reagan in 1981. That bill took more than six years and seven votes to pass, according to Kris Brown, president of the Brady Center to Prevent Gun Violence, which this week is rebranding itself under the name “Brady.” But it did not address gun show sales or sales over the internet, which have exploded since then.“For us at Brady, it’s a really meaningful and frankly almost emotional moment,” Ms. Brown said, referring to the coming House votes.Under federal law, if a gun consumer does not pass a background check instantly, the F.B.I. has three business days to determine whether there is sufficient evidence to deny a purchase. If they are unable to do so, on the fourth day, the purchaser can return to the dealer and buy a gun.AdvertisementSupported byBy Julie BosmanCHICAGO — Prosecutors in Illinois are challenging the prison sentence of Jason Van Dyke, the Chicago police officer who was convicted last year of killing Laquan McDonald and sentenced to nearly seven years in prison, a term that was criticized by many in Chicago as too lenient.In a petition filed Monday, Attorney General Kwame Raoul and Joseph McMahon, the special prosecutor in Mr. Van Dyke’s trial, asked the Illinois Supreme Court to review whether the sentence, after a conviction of second-degree murder, was proper under the law.“This is a question of whether the law was followed and whether a sentence was rendered on the appropriate charges,” Mr. Raoul, a Democrat who took office last month, said at a news conference on Monday, adding: “That is not a political question. That is a question of law.”At issue is whether Mr. Van Dyke, who was also convicted of 16 counts of aggravated battery with a firearm for each of the 16 shots he fired, should be sentenced for the aggravated batteries, which could result in a significantly longer prison term. Under his current sentence, exclusively for the second-degree murder conviction, he could be released from prison in as little as three years.Judge Vincent Gaughan ruled that he issued a sentence only on the second-degree murder charge because it was more serious than the aggravated battery counts.The prosecutors’ petition asks the Supreme Court to vacate Mr. Van Dyke’s sentence for second-degree murder and impose a sentence on each of the 16 counts of aggravated battery with a firearm.Prosecutors had originally asked the judge to issue a sentence of at least 18 years in prison.Darren O’Brien and Jennifer Blagg, Mr. Van Dyke’s lawyers, said in a joint statement that the petition was politically motivated, and that given the efforts to revisit Mr. Van Dyke’s prison term, he would now appeal his conviction. Mr. Van Dyke had earlier indicated that he was pleased with his sentence.The prosecutors “seek to turn the Illinois Supreme Court from a deliberative body into a political battleground,” the statement said. “The filing also opens up a Pandora’s box of legal issues that, in the long term, could result in grossly excessive, unjust sentences for defendants that follow in the wake of this request.”After the sentence was issued last month, Mr. McMahon, the special prosecutor, had appeared to be satisfied, saying at the time that “justice was served for Jason Van Dyke.”“It strikes a balance between holding Jason Van Dyke accountable and also recognizing his service as a police officer,” he said.On Monday, Mr. McMahon said that he has had “the benefit of some time” in considering whether to challenge the sentence.“I think the bigger message in this case is to make sure that the sentence that is imposed is a sentence that is lawful,” he said.Mr. McMahon said that this was the only legal avenue to challenge the legality of the sentence. He added that he believed that Laquan’s family was supportive of the prosecutors’ efforts.“Whatever the outcome, she would like this process to be over,” he said of Laquan’s mother, Tina Hunter.Mr. Van Dyke, who is white, shot and killed Laquan in October 2014 on the Southwest Side of Chicago as the black teenager walked down the street, carrying a pocketknife and ignoring officers’ orders to stop. A grainy video of Laquan’s death, recorded from the dashboard of a police car, was eventually released to the public, setting off widespread condemnation and protests.Mr. Van Dyke was the first Chicago police officer in almost 50 years to be convicted of murder.There is no deadline for the Supreme Court to decide whether to consider the petition. If it agrees to consider the petition, Mr. Van Dyke’s lawyers will have one week to file an objection.AdvertisementSupported byBy Julia JacobsAfter narcotics officers knocked down the door of a Houston home, the first one to enter was greeted by a charging dog and gunfire from a man wielding a .357 Magnum revolver, the authorities said on Tuesday.Nine undercover officers executed a search warrant on the home just before 5 p.m. on Monday; four were shot and one other officer was injured. The two people in the home, a 59-year-old man and a 58-year-old woman, were killed in the shootout, Chief Art Acevedo of the Houston Police Department said at a news conference on Tuesday morning.A Houston police official said Tuesday evening that the two most seriously wounded officers were expected to survive. They were in serious but stable condition.A third officer, who was shot in the shoulder, had been released from the hospital on Monday night, and another who was shot in the face was released Tuesday. A fifth officer, who was not shot but underwent knee surgery, was hospitalized in good condition, the police said.Earlier Tuesday, Chief Acevedo had said that one of the seriously wounded officers was “in a really tough fight.”On Monday evening, the nine officers knocked down the door of a home in a working-class neighborhood about seven miles southeast of downtown Houston. The raid followed a tip from a neighbor that the house was being used for drug deals, the chief said.The first officer to enter the home was immediately charged by a pit bull and shot at by the man inside the home, identified as Dennis Tuttle, Chief Acevedo said. The officer, 33, who has been with the Police Department for 10 years, fatally shot the dog and was struck on his shoulder, falling onto the sofa.Chief Acevedo said that the woman in the home, Rhogena Nicholas, then reached over that officer to grab his shotgun. Backup officers then opened fire at Ms. Nicholas, he said.At one point, Mr. Tuttle stuck his gun through the doorway and opened fire at the officers, the police said.Knowing that his fellow officers inside the house had been shot, a 54-year-old officer who had been with the department for 32 years entered the home and was shot in the face, the police said. At the news conference, Chief Acevedo said that after the raid, the officer passed a note to a colleague at the hospital. It said: “I had to get in there because I knew my guys were down,” he said.The police said they were not publicly identifying the injured officers because of “security concerns.”Although the police had said on Monday that they staged the raid because they believed black tar heroin was being dealt out of the home, the chief said the substance was not discovered during the raid. The police found marijuana and a white powdery substance that they said could be cocaine or fentanyl. They also recovered five guns, Chief Acevedo said.Public records indicate that Mr. Tuttle and Ms. Nicholas were married in December 1998.For a few hours, the neighborhood was plunged into chaos, as dozens of officers — some dressed in camouflage and carrying shotguns — moved through on foot. Helicopters circled overhead. One neighbor said the area sounded like a “war zone.”Chief Acevedo said the turbulent raid was an example of the country’s “epidemic” of gun violence.“We live in a society where there’s a proliferation of firearms,” he said, “where you can assume there’ll be firearms just about every location that you hit.”Manny Fernandez and Mihir Zaveri contributed reporting. Alain Delaquйriиre contributed research.AdvertisementSupported byBy ReutersROME — The Italian parliament on Thursday approved a law making it harder for judges to hand down tough sentences on people who shoot robbers on their premises.The so-called "legitimate defense" law was a victory for Matteo Salvini, leader of the hard-right League party which formed a government last June with the anti-establishment 5-Star Movement.Violent crime in Italy has declined in recent years, according to interior ministry data, with murders down 16.3 percent year-on-year in the 12 months to August 2018, and armed robbery down 12.3 percent.However, Interior Minister and Deputy Prime Minister Salvini has kept the issue high on the political agenda, offering his public support to people prosecuted for shooting robbers. "This is a wonderful day for Italians," he told reporters after the bill was passed in the Senate following its approval in the Chamber of Deputies. "Finally we are definitively guaranteeing the sacrosanct principle of legitimate defense for people who are attacked in their homes, their shops or their bars."By affirming that defense is always legitimate when people feel threatened by would-be robbers on their property, the legislation makes it harder for judges to pass tough sentences on those who shoot them.Home-owners can no longer be accused of excessive violence if they can show that they shot burglars "in a state of grave confusion due to the situation of danger".The bill also increases prison sentences for burglary and armed robbery. Center-left parties and some magistrates say the law will be difficult to interpret, will increase the use of firearms, and risks giving people the idea they can shoot intruders with impunity.AdvertisementSupported byBy The Associated PressCANBERRA, Australia — Police in Australia set off a panic when they locked down a Melbourne train station on Thursday after a street entertainer's instrument was mistaken for a rifle.Commuters described panic at Melbourne's Flagstaff Station when police in body armor carrying assault rifles stopped a train during morning rush hour. Terrified passengers were in tears and phoned relatives to tell them they were loved.Police said a passenger reported busker Will Austin behaving suspiciously on a train as he performed breathing exercises in preparation for playing his didgeridoo, a polished-wood indigenous wind instrument which he carried in a bag mistakenly described to police as a rifle case.Austin said he was stopped by police after he got off the train at the station. He was concentrating on his smart phone at the time."Everyone was running and I probably looked pretty suspicious, I suppose, just waltzing around and slowly walking out of Flagstaff and I think that's where police stopped me," Austin told reporters."A few police officers approached me — they kind of chased after me to catch up because I was on my way, but one requested to look in my bag," he added.Victoria state Police Chief Commissioner Graham Ashton said no firearm was found and the train was allowed to proceed.Train passenger Sarsha Vadocz said she was unconcerned at first when the train stopped for five minutes at the station. Then someone yelled there was a gunman on the train and passengers dived to the floor.AdvertisementSupported byBy The Associated PressWASHINGTON — The Supreme Court on Thursday declined to stop the Trump administration from enforcing its ban on bump stock devices, which allow semi-automatic weapons to fire like machine guns.The ban took effect Tuesday. Gun rights groups asked the court Monday to keep the government from enforcing the ban for now. Chief Justice John Roberts declined one request for the court to get involved on Tuesday and a second request was declined by the court on Thursday. That was the only remaining request. The justices didn't say anything in declining it.The administration's ban puts it in the unusual position of arguing against gun rights groups. President Donald Trump said last year that the government would move to ban bump stocks. The action followed a 2017 shooting in Las Vegas in which a gunman attached bump stocks to assault-style rifles he used to shoot concertgoers from his hotel room. By using the devices, which allow shots to be fired more rapidly, the gunman was able to fire more than 1,000 rounds in 11 minutes. Fifty-eight people were killed and hundreds were injured.The Trump administration's move was an about-face for the federal Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives. In 2010, under the Obama administration, the ATF found that the devices were legal. But under the Trump administration, officials revisited that determination and found it incorrect. The revised regulation, which went into effect Tuesday, requires owners either to destroy their bump stocks or surrender them. The government estimates hundreds of thousands of the devices have been sold.AdvertisementSupported byletterTo mark the anniversary of the Parkland shooting last Valentine’s Day, a reader calls on Americans to choose activism over chocolates. To the Editor:Re “9 Last-Minute Valentine’s Day Ideas” (nytimes.com, Feb. 11):Valentine’s Day is a day scarred for us all. It marks our collective failure to do our most basic duty: protect our children. It is impossible to go through this day with stuffed bears, chocolates and improv comedy when 17 beautiful lives were taken away on Valentine’s Day last year at Marjory Stoneman Douglas High School. We have failed to protect our children’s lives, time and time again. We failed those children in Parkland. We failed the 20 precious young lives in Sandy Hook. We failed the 12 beloved teenagers in Columbine. They will never send a Candygram or get a love letter from a high school crush. They will never have a little son or daughter hand them a homemade, heart-shaped card with scrawlings of love. Valentine’s Day is a time for activism, for us to do our basic duty of forcing our leaders, our businesses and ourselves to enact laws that stop children from being murdered. Improve campus safety. Strengthen mental health supports and screenings. Enact responsible firearms laws.AdvertisementSupported byBy Reuters(Reuters) - Federal and state officials in Louisiana are investigating suspicious fires that destroyed three predominantly black churches in 10 days in one mostly rural parish, authorities said on Saturday.Investigators have not concluded whether the three fires at Baptist churches in St. Landry Parish, about 100 miles (160 km) northwest of New Orleans, were connected, said Ashley Rodrigue, a spokeswoman for the Louisiana Fire Marshall's Office.They also have not determined whether the blazes, which occurred between March 26 and Thursday, were intentionally set, she said in an email. At a news conference on Thursday, State Fire Marshall Butch Browning was asked if investigators were treating the fires as potential hate crimes."If the hate crime definition was violated, we will certainly vet those things out," Browning said.The number of hate crimes in the United States increased 17 percent in 2017, the third consecutive year such attacks rose, according to FBI data released last fall.Investigators probing the St. Landry Parish fires were awaiting lab results but view the three blazes as "suspicious," Browning said at the news conference.Without giving details, he said certain "patterns" had been discovered, but that it was too early to say whether a single individual had started the fires. "There certainly is commonality and whether that leads to a person or persons or groups, we don't know," Browning said.The fires destroyed St. Mary Baptist Church in the community of Port Barre, and Greater Union Baptist Church and Mount Pleasant Baptist Church in Opelousas, the parish seat.The FBI and U.S. Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives have joined in the investigation, Browning said.Investigators have concluded that a fourth fire last Sunday, more than 200 miles outside St. Landry Parish at a predominantly white church in Vivian in northwest Louisiana, was intentionally set, state fire officials said in a statement.That fire, inside the sanctuary at Vivian United Pentecostal Church, was relatively small and burned itself out.AdvertisementSupported byBy ReutersMANILA — The Philippines has filed a diplomatic protest over the presence of more than 200 Chinese boats near an island occupied by Manila in the disputed South China Sea, the president's spokesman said on Monday.President Rodrigo Duterte has pursued warmer ties with China since taking office in 2016 in exchange for billions of dollars of pledged loans and investment.The Department of Foreign Affairs protested against the vessels near the Philippines-occupied Thitu island, presidential spokesman Salvador Panelo told a regular news conference, without describing the boats. The Chinese ambassador said they were fishing boats."The mere fact that they are there and just staying there for a week, why, what are they doing there?" Panelo said. It was unclear when and where the Philippines filed the protest.The Philippines monitored more than 200 Chinese boats near Thitu, locally called Pagasa, in January to March this year, military data showed.The Philippines, China, Vietnam, Taiwan, Brunei and Malaysia have competing claims of sovereignty in the waterway, a conduit for in excess of $3.4 trillion of goods.Lights from hundreds of buildings in China's sprawling artificial islands can be seen at night from Thitu.Both Chinese and Filipino fishermen are present in the contested waters, Zhao Jianhua, China's ambassador to the Philippines, told reporters. He denied media reports that Chinese fishermen were carrying firearms.Beijing and Manila were handling maritime issues through friendly and diplomatic channels, Zhao said."You don't have to worry about whether there would be any kind of outbreak of conflict or not," he said.The announcement of the diplomatic protest came as the Philippines and United States, a treaty ally, kicked off an annual joint military exercise involving roughly 7,500 troops, including 50 from Australia.They are aimed at enhancing response to natural disasters."It's not directed to any threat or existing security concern," military exercise director Lt. Gen. Gilbert Gapay told reporters.AdvertisementSupported byBy The Associated PressCHARLESTON, W.Va. — A Missouri man who threatened President Donald Trump and sped to the White House with a gun had driven 13 hours without stopping before he was pulled over along a West Virginia highway Wednesday, a trooper said.Eric Leonardo Charron of Kansas City, Missouri, was arraigned in Preston County Magistrate Court on Thursday in Kingwood on charges of reckless driving and being a prohibited person in possession of a firearm.State police said Charron was going 130 mph (209 kph) — nearly twice the speed limit — on Interstate 68 when he was pulled over near Bruceton Mills. The incident prompted the interstate to be closed for nearly four hours.Trooper D.W. Satterfield said in a criminal complaint that Charron, 42, indicated he was traveling to the White House and that he was running late to a dinner he was invited to by Trump. The suspect also said he had to travel to the Pentagon "to meet with the leader of the Army to return a phone," according to the complaint.Charron later said he had "special hearing" that "would tell him to do bad things once he arrived at the White House or The Pentagon," Satterfield said, adding the "special hearing" also told Charron to remove Satterfield's gun from its holster while being transported from the traffic stop.Satterfield said a vehicle search turned up a handgun, 300 rounds of ammunition and gunpowder. In addition, manuscripts written by Charron contained "subjects ranging from time travel, levitating watercraft, and mythical creatures such as the 'Chupacubra.'"The trooper said Charron admitted using methamphetamine recently and his pupils were dilated despite bright conditions outside. Charron had driven through the night from his hometown, authorities said. The trooper didn't notice any luggage in the vehicle.Satterfield asked Charron why the vehicle's remote key would not open the trunk, and Charron stated he had tampered with the fuses in an effort to "keep the CIA from listening to him through the radio."AdvertisementSupported byBy Mihir ZaveriIf art really does imitate life, it may be best in certain instances to make clear which is taking place.That idea was reflected in a post the Los Angeles County Sheriff’s Department shared on Facebook on Friday night.The department’s San Dimas station got a call on Wednesday about a possible kidnapping along Highway 39 in the San Gabriel Mountains, according to the Sheriff’s Department.The caller said he saw two people pointing a gun at another person whose hands were duct taped near a black BMW sedan.It was a call that deputies took seriously, Sgt. Michael McGrattan of the Sheriff’s Department said in an interview Friday night.“Typically on a call like that, we would send multiple deputies,” he said. “That’s actually a remote location up in the mountains. Up in the mountains there, we actually from time to time, we have bodies dumped, we have had shootings, we have had murders.”Deputies proceeded with caution, he said, and conducted what the agency called a “high-risk” traffic stop on the car.They found three men, and detained them, according to the Facebook post.Deputy Ed Luna said in an interview on Friday night that all three men were interviewed separately, and that their stories matched.But it was not a kidnapping — at least not a real one.“It turns out they were filming a music video,” Sergeant McGrattan said. “They were enacting a kidnapping, so to speak.”But they had a real gun, he said. One of the men was charged with a misdemeanor for openly carrying an unloaded firearm in a vehicle, he said.In its Facebook post, the department offered some practical advice: If anyone is filming a music video in the mountains, do not pretend to kidnap and duct tape someone and use a real gun.At least not without telling the authorities.AdvertisementSupported byAn obscure New York City gun case could tempt the justices to make broad pronouncements about a right they haven’t addressed in a decade.By The Editorial BoardThe editorial board represents the opinions of the board, its editor and the publisher. It is separate from the newsroom and the Op-Ed section.Is there a more enigmatic and oddly phrased passage in the Constitution than the Second Amendment?“A well-regulated militia” — there’s no consensus on what this meant 200 years ago, much less now — “being necessary to the security of a free state” — were the framers talking about collective defense or self-defense? — “the right of the people to keep and bear arms” — bear arms like a soldier? — “shall not be infringed.”Yet, despite serious questions about the breadth of the amendment’s protections, at least four Supreme Court justices seem ready to consider what had until recently been a maximalist position: that it guarantees Americans a broadly unrestricted right to gun ownership.For 217 years, the opacity of the Second Amendment kept the Supreme Court from affirming that its text gave Americans as individuals, not as militia members, the right to have a gun. Former Chief Justice Warren Burger called that claim “one of the greatest pieces of fraud … on the American public by special-interest groups that I have ever seen in my lifetime.” The con seemed to have worked. In 2008 and then in 2010, the court ruled that, within certain limits, the government could not prohibit people from having handguns in their homes for self-protection, declaring that the amendment guaranteed that right for Americans as individuals. Since then, many on the right, including some justices, have been frustrated that the court has repeatedly refused to go further in expanding Second Amendment rights or at least clarifying the legal standard for assessing new gun control measures.In dissenting from the court’s refusal to review a lower-court ruling that permitted an Illinois city’s ban on semiautomatic firearms and high-capacity magazines, Justice Clarence Thomas wrote in December 2015 that the justices were “relegating the Second Amendment to a second-class right.”The arrival of Justice Brett Kavanaugh last year may have shifted the balance on the court in Justice Thomas’s favor. Replacing Justice Anthony Kennedy, who was more willing to accept limits on gun rights, and who may have played a role in moderating Justice Antonin Scalia’s 2008 decision in District of Columbia v. Heller, Justice Kavanaugh joins other justices who have expressed absolutist views on the Second Amendment — Justice Thomas, Justice Neil Gorsuch and Justice Samuel Alito Jr. In 2011, then-Judge Kavanaugh, serving on an appellate court, wrote a dissent in a follow-up case to Heller that signals his views. That ruling upheld a ban by Washington, D.C., on semiautomatic rifles and a separate gun registration requirement — in Judge Kavanaugh’s view, those provisions were unconstitutional and should not have been enforced.Last week the court agreed to hear a case from New York City that would, for the first time in a decade, allow the justices to decide whether the right to bear arms is, as Justice Thomas complained last year, a “constitutional orphan.”On the surface, the case, which the justices will hear in the session that begins in October, seems inconsequential. Three New Yorkers, backed by gun rights groups, are challenging an administrative rule that permits people with a license for a gun on a particular premise, like the owner’s home, to take it only to one of the seven shooting ranges in the city. That means no trips to shooting ranges or vacation homes upstate or across the Hudson to New Jersey. The city told the justices that the rule, which predates the Supreme Court’s Heller decision, was needed because authorities had received reports that licensed gun owners were abusing their privileges — traveling beyond city limits or designated shooting ranges, sometimes with loaded firearms, posing a risk to public safety. Could the Supreme Court’s conservative bloc use the case to declare that a gun owner has a constitutional right to carry a handgun anywhere outside the home, sensible limits be damned? Chief Justice John Roberts Jr. has, at times, played the role of centrist, and he may turn out to be a moderating force in keeping that from happening.AdvertisementSupported byBy Matt StevensA white man who shot three young black men who had been trying to evacuate in the aftermath of Hurricane Katrina died just days after being sentenced to 10 years in prison for the crimes, the authorities said Wednesday.The man, Roland J. Bourgeois Jr., 56, died Feb. 19 — five days after his sentencing — at a jail in Louisiana while he was in the custody of the United States Marshals Service, Walter Martin, a supervisory deputy, said. Mr. Bourgeois had been awaiting a transfer to a federal prison.The Plaquemines Parish Sheriff’s Office is handling the death investigation, Mr. Martin added. The cause of death was not immediately clear, but Mr. Martin said the authorities did not suspect foul play.Federal prosecutors had cited Mr. Bourgeois’s physical and mental health as one reason his court proceedings dragged on for nearly nine years after he was initially indicted. During that time, Mr. Bourgeois was repeatedly found incompetent to stand trial. He was eventually declared competent in 2018.Shortly after the hurricane ravaged New Orleans in 2005, Mr. Bourgeois fired a shotgun at the three men because they were black and had entered the neighborhood in which he lived, the United States attorney’s office for the Eastern District of Louisiana had said. The men, who were all injured in the shooting, had been trying to reach a ferry landing that state and federal agencies were using as an evacuation site.In 2010, federal prosecutors charged Mr. Bourgeois with five felony counts, and the maximum penalty was life in prison. Prosecutors later dismissed the original indictment as part of a plea agreement, and in October, Mr. Bourgeois pleaded guilty to two counts: interference with the rights of the men he targeted and use of a firearm during a violent crime.On Feb. 14, he was sentenced to five years in prison on each of the two counts. He was also sentenced to five years of supervised release.Julia Jacobs contributed reporting.AdvertisementSupported byBy ReutersLOS ANGELES — A Los Angeles man pleaded not guilty on Thursday to charges that he killed Grammy-nominated rapper Nipsey Hussle and was ordered held on $5 million bail.Eric Ronald Holder, 29, entered his pleas to murder and attempted murder charges through his attorney during a brief hearing in Los Angeles Superior Court.Holder appeared in court behind bars in a holding cell and spoke only to acknowledge his rights. He was ordered held on $5 million bail and told to return for a hearing on May 10.Holder was represented in the high-profile case by Chris Darden who, as a Los Angeles County deputy district attorney in the 1990s, unsuccessfully prosecuted former football star O.J. Simpson for murder.Darden asked Los Angeles Superior Court Judge Teresa Sullivan to ban cameras from the courtroom, a request she denied. Darden declined to speak to reporters as he left the courthouse.Hussle, whose real name was Ermias Asghedom, was shot multiple times on March 31 outside his Marathon Clothing store in south Los Angeles. Two other people were wounded by gunfire.PERSONAL DISPUTEHolder was taken into custody on Tuesday in the Los Angeles suburb of Bellflower after a caller reported seeing the man police had named as a suspect. Investigators say the slaying was motivated by a personal dispute between the two men. Holder faces a maximum sentence of life in prison without the possibility of parole if convicted at trial. A woman who drove Holder away from the scene has not been arrested or charged in the case. The Los Angeles Times reported on Thursday that Holder was an aspiring rapper and suspected gang member who went by the nickname "Fly Mac". He has a previous conviction for carrying a loaded firearm, the paper said.A disturbance erupted at a vigil for Hussle on Monday, setting off a stampede that critically injured two people. Hussle's debut studio album, "Victory Lap," was nominated for Best Rap Album at this year's Grammy Awards and his death prompted tributes on social media. The rapper, who was of Eritrean descent and grew up in south Los Angeles, has said that he once belonged to a street gang but more recently he had parlayed his fame into a role as a community organizer and activist. AdvertisementSupported byBy ReutersLOS ANGELES — A Los Angeles man pleaded not guilty on Thursday to charges that he killed Grammy-nominated rapper Nipsey Hussle and was ordered held on $5 million bail.Eric Ronald Holder, 29, entered his pleas to murder and attempted murder charges through his attorney during a brief hearing in Los Angeles Superior Court.Holder appeared in court behind bars in a holding cell and spoke only to acknowledge his rights. He was ordered held on $5 million bail and told to return for a hearing on May 10.Holder was represented in the high-profile case by Chris Darden who, as a Los Angeles County deputy district attorney in the 1990s, unsuccessfully prosecuted former football star O.J. Simpson for murder.Darden asked Los Angeles Superior Court Judge Teresa Sullivan to ban cameras from the courtroom, a request she denied. Darden declined to speak to reporters as he left the courthouse.Hussle, whose real name was Ermias Asghedom, was shot multiple times on March 31 outside his Marathon Clothing store in south Los Angeles. Two other people were wounded by gunfire.PERSONAL DISPUTEHolder was taken into custody on Tuesday in the Los Angeles suburb of Bellflower after a caller reported seeing the man police had named as a suspect. Investigators say the slaying was motivated by a personal dispute between the two men. Holder faces a maximum sentence of life in prison without the possibility of parole if convicted at trial. A woman who drove Holder away from the scene has not been arrested or charged in the case. The Los Angeles Times reported on Thursday that Holder was an aspiring rapper and suspected gang member who went by the nickname "Fly Mac". He has a previous conviction for carrying a loaded firearm, the paper said.A disturbance erupted at a vigil for Hussle on Monday, setting off a stampede that critically injured two people. Hussle's debut studio album, "Victory Lap," was nominated for Best Rap Album at this year's Grammy Awards and his death prompted tributes on social media. The rapper, who was of Eritrean descent and grew up in south Los Angeles, has said that he once belonged to a street gang but more recently he had parlayed his fame into a role as a community organizer and activist. AdvertisementSupported byBy Amy QinBEIJING — A man wielding a knife killed two students and injured two others at an elementary school in central China on Wednesday, according to the local authorities.The attack occurred early Wednesday morning at Baijiaping Township Wanquan Elementary School in Ningyuan County, Hunan Province. A brief statement issued by Ningyuan County on its official WeChat social media account said that the two injured students had been taken to a hospital. Reached by telephone, an official surnamed Feng at the public security bureau of Ningyuan County said the injured students were in stable condition but declined to offer more details.The statement said that the suspect, a 31-year-old man surnamed Zheng, had been taken into police custody. Officials offered no details on the motivation behind the attack. The incident is still under investigation.Videos circulating online showed a large crowd of anxious adults carrying umbrellas gathered outside the school gates.Gun violence is rare in China, where ownership of firearms is strictly regulated. But Wednesday’s violence was the latest in a string of knife attacks on Chinese schools in recent years, adding to persistent concerns among parents about school safety.In the last year, knife attacks have occurred at schools in Shaanxi Province, in Shanghai and in the southwestern Chinese city of Chongqing. In January, a man attacked and injured 20 children with a hammer at an elementary school in Beijing.This week, the police in Henan Province said they had detained a kindergarten teacher on suspicion of poisoning 23 children.The frequency of school attacks has shown few signs of abating despite the fact that perpetrators of such crimes in China are often dealt severe punishment, including the death penalty.Experts have said the spate of school attacks can be attributed in part to a lack of high-quality mental health care in China and growing frustrations about social inequality and injustice. Some have pointed to a series of deadly stabbings of children in 2010 as the inspiration for later copycat attacks.Some users on Sina Weibo, a Chinese social media platform similar to Twitter, reacted to the news of the attack in Hunan on Wednesday by calling for the death penalty for the attacker. Others expressed disappointment that after so many years, the problem of school attacks had not yet been resolved.“When I was in elementary school, there were many attacks like this,” one user said. “Schools organized drills and hired many security guards with anti-riot gear to guard the gates.”“It’s hard to believe that now I’m about to graduate from college and humans are still doing the same thing, even though the era has changed,” the user added.International video coverage from The New York Times.Paul Manafort’s Trail of ScandalsMy Dead Dad’s Porno TapesTen Meter TowerBetween Sound and SilenceCoal Miner to Trump: “Coal Mining Isn’t Coming Back”House Tour | Cary LeibowitzSanctuary City HotlineAdvertisementSupported byBy The Associated PressWACO, Texas — No one will be convicted or otherwise held accountable for the 2015 shootout between rival biker gangs in Waco restaurant parking lot that left nine people dead and at least 20 injured, prosecutors in Central Texas said Tuesday.In a statement announcing all charges will be dropped in the deadliest biker shooting in U.S. history, McLennan County District Attorney Barry Johnson said any further effort to prosecute the case would be a "waste of time, effort and resources.""In my opinion, had this action been taken in a timely manner, it would have, and should have, resulted in numerous convictions and prison sentences against many of those who participated in the Twin Peaks brawl," Johnson said. "Over the next three years the prior district attorney failed to take that action, for reasons that I do not know to this day."The shooting outside a Twin Peaks restaurant in Waco on May 17, 2015, involved rival biker gangs, the Bandidos and Cossacks, and occurred as bikers from various groups were gathering to talk over matters of concern. Fights and gunfire broke out. Waco police officers monitoring the gathering also fired on the bikers, killing at least two.Surveillance footage showed many bikers running from the scene and ducking for cover after gunshots rang out. A smaller number could be seen pointing and firing weapons, slinging a chain or participating in fistfights. Law enforcement officers recovered dozens of firearms, knives and other weapons from the restaurant and adjacent parking lot, many of which officers organized indiscriminately into piles on the pavement and in the back of a police vehicle, dash-cam video showed. Law enforcement officials took the extraordinary step of arresting 177 bikers after the shooting, then charged 155 of them with engaging in organized criminal activity. Many were held on a $1 million bond.Former District Attorney Abel Reyna ultimately dropped charges against all but 24 and re-indicted them on riot charges. Those were the cases that came to an end Tuesday.Only one case was prosecuted in court and that ended in a mistrial. More than 100 bikers have filed civil rights lawsuits alleging McLennan County, the city and others violated the plaintiffs' civil rights by arresting them without probable cause after the shooting,AdvertisementSupported byBy The Associated PressEL PASO, Texas — The latest on Beto O'Rourke official presidential campaign kickoff in Texas (all times local):6:10 p.m.Beto O'Rourke has evoked a school shooting last year near Houston to call for banning assault weapons and points to that city's 2017 devastation during Hurricane Harvey to push for fighting climate change.The former Democratic congressman is formally launching his presidential campaign with Saturday rallies across Texas. He began in his native El Paso, then visited Houston's historically black Texas Southern University and is holding a late-night Austin event.Wearing a Texas Southern cap, O'Rourke recalled the deadly shooting at Santa Fe High School last May. He advocated for universal background checks for firearms purchases.O'Rourke also said he wanted to ensure that weapons "sold to the United States military with the sole purpose of killing people" are confined to the battlefield.He said Harvey meant Houston understands the perils climate change "better than just about anyone."___12:30 p.m.Democratic presidential candidate Beto O'Rourke has told 1,000-plus supporters near the Texas-Mexico border that immigrants make the country stronger.Formally kicking off his campaign in his hometown of El Paso on Saturday, O'Rourke offered support for unapologetically liberal positions, including backing federal legalization of marijuana. He promised to strengthen unions nationwide, make it easier to register to vote and end U.S. wars in Iraq and Afghanistan.The former congressman again vowed to work with Republicans, saying that a unified campaign will help him win his party's 2020 nomination and "defeat Donald Trump."President Donald Trump has threatened to shutter the U.S.-Mexico border to combat a rise in the number of immigrants crossing.Speaking mere blocks from the border, O'Rourke said, "We have learned not to fear our differences but to respect and embrace them."____5:30 a.m.Beto O'Rourke is formally kicking off his presidential campaign with three rallies across his home state, where he came close enough to upsetting Sen. Ted Cruz to generate the national buzz now buoying his 2020 White House bid.The Democratic ex-congressman is holding a Saturday morning rally mere blocks from the U.S.-Mexico border in his native El Paso, then traveling to historically black Texas Southern University in Houston before an evening event in the shadow of Austin's state Capitol.AdvertisementSupported byBy Richard FaussetAn Alabama police officer will not be criminally charged for killing a young black man whom he had mistaken for the gunman in a shopping-mall shooting Thanksgiving night, the state attorney general’s office said Tuesday. The decision is likely to extend the debate over a tragedy at the intersection of gun rights and concerns over racial biases in policing.The shooting death of Emantic F. Bradford Jr., 21, at the Riverchase Galleria mall in Hoover, Ala., prompted protests and raised questions about whether police officers are too quick to assume that a nonwhite person who is armed is a wrongdoer.In a 24-page report, Attorney General Steve Marshall concluded that the Hoover police officer — identified only as Officer 1 — who shot Mr. Bradford had “reasonably exercised” his duties.“Officer 1’s actions were reasonable under the circumstances and were consistent with his training and nationally accepted standards for ‘active shooter’ scenarios,” the report stated.[Read what 10 black gun owners told us about their interactions with law enforcement, other authorities and the general public.]The police officer shot Mr. Bradford, who went by E.J., a few seconds after gunshots rang out at the mall on Nov. 22, sending shoppers racing for safety and leaving an 18-year-old man, Brian Wilson, injured by two bullets.The officer, who was on duty at the mall, said in a statement that he had turned toward the sound of the gunfire with his weapon drawn, and saw an injured man clutching his stomach near a railing, with another man helping him. He said he also saw “an armed suspect” who was “quickly moving towards the two males standing near the railing.”“The suspect was advancing on the two males and had a black handgun in his right hand,” the officer said. “I fired my duty weapon at the armed suspect to stop him.” That man was Mr. Bradford.The officer said he thought Mr. Bradford was going to kill the two men, and the report said the officer had “mistakenly believed” Mr. Bradford had fired the initial shots.The officer said he was unable to issue verbal commands before firing, “due to the quickness of the event and the immediate threat Bradford posed” to the two men he was approaching.The police later arrested another man — Erron Martez Dequan Brown, 20 — and charged him with attempted murder in connection with the shooting of Mr. Wilson, the injured man by the railing.The attorney general’s report said there was no evidence that Mr. Bradford’s handgun was fired at the mall.The report said the F.B.I. had found no evidence to prompt an investigation into whether Mr. Bradford’s civil rights had been violated, a basis for federal prosecutions in cases that are otherwise under state jurisdiction. An F.B.I. spokeswoman declined to comment on the matter Tuesday.The decision not to bring charges did little to quell the suspicions and anger of Mr. Bradford’s relatives and supporters. “I’m outraged,” his mother, April Pipkins, said in a telephone interview Tuesday. “In no way was justice served.”Some surveillance video images of the events at the mall were released on Tuesday. But Benjamin L. Crump, a lawyer for the family, said he believed there was additional footage that had not been released, and he demanded that the public be allowed to see it. In a prepared statement, he said that Mr. Bradford’s “only ‘crime’ was being black.”Ashlyn McMillan, a witness to the mall shootings, told The New York Times that she considered Mr. Bradford a hero, saying that he had directed frantic shoppers to safety and had warned her to get down and seek cover inside a store.A man named Roosevelt Poole filled in some of the night’s narrative blanks at a recent preliminary hearing in the case. According to the Alabama news website AL.com, Mr. Poole said that he and another man were with Mr. Brown, the suspected gunman, in front of the J.C. Penney store in the mall when Mr. Bradford, Mr. Wilson and about eight other people showed up.Soon, Mr. Poole said, Mr. Wilson was slapping and punching Mr. Brown, the website reported. Mr. Brown’s lawyers say that he shot Mr. Wilson in self-defense.The attorney general’s report said that video footage showed Mr. Brown and his friends running into the J.C. Penney store after the shots were fired. For his part, Mr. Bradford initially ran away from the store entrance after the shots, the report said, but then drew his weapon and chambered a round.“Bradford then charges back toward J.C. Penney, gun drawn,” the report states.Mr. Crump said in a telephone interview that he believed Mr. Bradford was in no way intending to engage in a shootout.The attorney general’s report concludes that the officer’s initial mistaken belief that Mr. Bradford had shot Mr. Wilson did not render the officer’s actions “unreasonable.”“First, a reasonable person could have assumed that the only person with a gun who was running toward the victim of a shooting that occurred just three seconds earlier fired the shots,” it said.The report also asserted that Mr. Bradford “still posed an immediate deadly threat to persons in the area. Video evidence suggests that Bradford, who was carrying a firearm, was running toward the initial shooter, Erron Brown, who was also carrying a firearm. Multiple shoppers were nearby, including a mother and child directly in between the two armed men.”AdvertisementSupported byBy Kate TaylorPeople on opposite sides of the debate about guns apparently can’t agree on anything these days — not even the meaning of a string of pearls.On Tuesday, liberal activists expressed outrage at a group of male New Hampshire legislators who wore pearl necklaces at a committee hearing. Shannon Watts, the founder of a gun control group, Moms Demand Action for Gun Sense in America, posted an image of the lawmakers, all Republicans, on Twitter and accused them of mocking her group’s volunteers and others who were testifying.Male New Hampshire lawmakers on the hearing committee wearing pearls to mock @MomsDemand volunteers and gun safety advocates. #NHPolitics pic.twitter.com/rc1S3Bj9lGThe intended message of the pearls wasn’t entirely clear, though one interpretation was that the lawmakers were trying to paint members of the group as “pearl clutchers” — suggesting that they were being overly sensitive. People responding to the tweet attacked the men pictured, calling them bullies and their behavior malicious and cruel.Two Democratic presidential hopefuls, Senators Cory Booker and Kamala Harris, weighed in on Twitter in support of Moms Demand Action, which is an arm of Everytown For Gun Safety, the gun control group financed by Michael Bloomberg. “These moms are fighting to confront gun violence and protect our children,” Ms. Harris said. “They don’t deserve to be mocked.”But a different narrative soon emerged: Kimberly Morin, the president of a gun rights group that also attended the hearing, told The New Hampshire Union Leader that her group had distributed the pearls. The hearing was over a proposed “red flag” bill, which would allow courts to temporarily take away guns from people found to be an immediate risk to themselves or others.In an interview on Wednesday, Ms. Morin said the pearls were not meant to mock anyone, but had for years been a symbol for her group, the Women’s Defense League of New Hampshire, which offers firearms training to women as well as advocating gun rights.“She’s lying,” Ms. Morin said of Ms. Watts, the founder of Moms Demand Action. “That’s my comment — she’s lying.”For her part, Ms. Watts said Ms. Morin’s group was backing away from the necklaces’ original intent. “It started out meant to mock Moms Demand Action volunteers,” she insisted.Ms. Morin traced the origin of the symbolic pearls to 2015. After a hearing that year on a bill to allow people to carry concealed guns without a permit, an anonymous Moms Demand Action volunteer was quoted as saying that many potential opponents of the bill didn’t testify because they were intimidated, Ms. Morin said.“People really don’t like to come and stand in front of a ‘firing squad’ — a group of people with guns,” the volunteer told WMUR, a local television station.Ms. Morin said her group found the statement absurd. That day, some in her group were dressed in business suits — and as it happened, pearls — hardly the attire of a “firing squad.” It was that sequence of events that led the group to make pearls their signature, she said. (The bill was ultimately signed by Gov. Chris Sununu in 2017 at a ceremony rife with pearl necklaces.)New Hampshire has among the least restrictive gun laws in the country, and support for gun rights is strong. Democrats took control of both chambers of the legislature in November and are now pushing a package of bills aimed at setting limits on guns, including bills requiring background checks for commercial gun purchases, creating a waiting period between the purchase and delivery of a gun, and allowing school districts to create gun-free zones.The bills face considerable odds, given that Mr. Sununu, a Republican, has expressed opposition to any changes to the state’s gun laws, a position his spokesman reiterated on Wednesday.AdvertisementSupported byBy Catie EdmondsonWASHINGTON — The House this week is set to pass the first major gun control legislation in over two decades, with Democratic lawmakers expected to approve two measures strengthening background checks for all firearms sales.The last time the House put high-profile legislation expanding gun control laws to a vote was in 1994, when it passed the Federal Assault Weapons Ban and made it illegal to manufacture a number of semiautomatic weapons for civilian use. That legislation expired after a decade and was not renewed by a Republican-controlled Congress.But riding a new wave of urgency after a series of mass shootings — and the activism inspired by the school massacre in Parkland, Fla., last February in which 17 students and teachers were killed — House Democrats have pledged to take meaningful action on the issue, beginning with the twin bills.Here’s what you need to know about the measures and their odds in the Senate.The Bipartisan Background Checks Act, which the House will take up on Wednesday, requires universal background checks, closing a loophole for buyers at gun shows and online. The legislation, sponsored by Representative Mike Thompson, Democrat of California and the chairman of the House Gun Violence Prevention Task Force, also prohibits firearms transfers by a person who is not a licensed dealer. There are a number of exceptions, though, such as a family member giving a firearm as a gift, or lending a gun to someone in imminent danger.The second piece of legislation, the Enhanced Background Checks Act, will be voted on Thursday. Sponsored by Representative James E. Clyburn of South Carolina, the majority whip, the bill seeks to extend the initial background check review period to 10 days from three.Under federal law, the F.B.I. has three business days to perform its review and determine whether there is sufficient evidence to deny a purchase. If it is unable to do so, on the fourth day, the customer can return to the dealer and buy a gun. That loophole allowed Dylann S. Roof, the man who killed nine people at a historically black church in Charleston, S.C., in 2015, to purchase a .45-caliber handgun even though he had previously admitted to drug possession, which should have barred him from legally obtaining the weapon.A vast majority of guns used in 19 recent mass shootings — including those in Newtown, Conn.; San Bernardino, Calif.; and Las Vegas — were bought legally and after the gunman passed a federal background check. At least nine attackers had criminal histories or documented mental health problems that did not prevent them from obtaining their weapons.“The new gun control restrictions currently being considered by the Democratic majority in H.R. 8 would not have prevented my shooting,” Representative Steve Scalise of Louisiana, the Republican whip, said of the Bipartisan Background Checks Act. Mr. Scalise was gravely wounded in 2017 when a gunman fired on members of the Republican congressional baseball team while they were practicing in Virginia.But gun control advocates have praised the measures as a meaningful step toward change, and described the legislation as a necessary foundation for future work. Last year, the existing background check system identified and denied 88,000 gun sales to prohibited buyers including criminals and domestic abusers, according to Mr. Thompson’s office — but those same people are currently able to make purchases at gun shows or online.“We have fairly weak gun laws and we have loopholes that make it easy to have the levels of gun violence that we have right now, and we certainly have to do more to address it,” said Robin Lloyd, the managing director of the Giffords Law Center to Prevent Gun Violence. “But it is a critical first step.”The bills introduced by House Democrats closely mirror the last major attempt in the Senate to pass a gun control measure. Efforts led by Senator Patrick J. Toomey, Republican of Pennsylvania, and Senator Joe Manchin III, Democrat of West Virginia, to require background checks at gun shows and online failed in the Democratic-led Senate in 2013 and again in the Republican-led Senate in 2015.Otherwise, in the last two decades, most firearms legislation taken up by Congress has aimed to relax gun laws, such as attempts in the House and Senate to pass a concealed-carry reciprocity law allowing a person permitted to carry a concealed weapon in one state to carry it in every state.AdvertisementSupported byBy Catie EdmondsonWASHINGTON — The House voted on Wednesday to require background checks for all gun purchasers, including those at gun shows and on the internet — the first significant gun control bill to clear the chamber in a quarter of a century.The 240-to-190 vote is the first of two gun control measures expected to be put to House lawmakers this week, a turning point in gun legislation after 25 years when the National Rifle Association dominated the chamber. Last year’s massacre at Marjory Stoneman Douglas High School in Parkland, Fla., prompted a wave of student-led activism that pressed Democrats to unite around gun control, and the activists cheered when the measure cleared the 218-vote threshold for passage.The Democratic victory was tempered, however, after Republicans prevailed in adding a provision that would require the F.B.I. to alert Immigration and Customs Enforcement if an undocumented immigrant tried to obtain a firearm. Twenty-six Democrats, primarily from moderate or Republican-leaning districts, broke party lines to support the measure.But Speaker Nancy Pelosi of California and other Democrats insisted that would ultimately have little import.“Finally, we have done more than thoughts and prayers. Finally, we have taken a vote to expand background checks and help save lives,” said Representative Mike Thompson, Democrat of California, who leads the congressional Gun Violence Prevention Task Force.“For six long years, we worked on this issue, and the previous majority would not even let us have a hearing, let alone a vote to expand background checks,” Mr. Thompson said. “Today is a new day, and the show of support on both sides of the aisle for this important legislation is humbling.”More than 100 student activists, gun violence survivors and advocates — clad in a sea of orange scarves, ties and blazers to denote their support for the legislation — looked on from the House gallery as lawmakers advanced Mr. Thompson’s legislation, the Bipartisan Background Checks Act. It seeks to close loopholes that allow individuals to buy firearms on the internet or at gun shows without having to pass a background check.“We’ve been working toward this legislation for over a year now,” said Laura Kirk, 18, and a founder of a Students Demand Action high school chapter in Virginia. “It’s incredible to see our work translate into tangible results.”The Democrat-led House is expected to pass legislation on Thursday that would extend the amount of time the F.B.I. has to conduct background checks of gun purchasers, to 10 business days from three. It is an attempt to close the so-called Charleston loophole, which allowed Dylann Roof, the white supremacist who killed nine people in 2015 at a historically black church in Charleston, S.C., to buy a handgun even though he should have been barred from purchasing the weapon.It is “unlikely” that either measure will be taken up in the Republican-controlled Senate, Senator John Thune of South Dakota, the No. 3 Republican, said on Tuesday. House Republicans have flatly condemned both pieces of legislation, arguing the measures would be both ineffective and infringe on law-abiding citizens’ rights.The House bill that was approved on Wednesday “is taking the fears and concerns of a nation over gun violence and perpetrating a fraud on them,” said Representative Doug Collins of Georgia, the top Republican on the Judiciary Committee. “The reality is nothing in this bill would have stopped Parkland, or stopped any of the other violence we have seen.”Gunmen at the center of a number of high-profile mass shootings passed background checks and legally purchased the firearms they used. But gun control activists have praised both background check measures as a critical first step in a broader drive to reduce gun violence.“America’s current background check system is like having two types of security lines at the airport: one for people who are willing to be screened, and one you can waltz right through carrying whatever you want,” said John Feinblatt, the president of Everytown for Gun Safety. “We applaud the House for moving so quickly.”Once divided on the issue, House Democrats returned to the majority, promising meaningful action on gun control, with aid from advocacy groups backing candidates who made the issue central to their campaigns. Michael Bloomberg, the former mayor of New York, spent around $100 million in the midterms last year to elect gun control supporters, according to Everytown.The group will continue its push this week with $400,000 in digital ads urging lawmakers to support the legislation as it tries to break through the Senate.One of the new freshman Democrats supported by Mr. Bloomberg, Representative Lucy McBath of Georgia, had a 17-year-old son, Jordan, killed by gun violence.“Turning her grief and her tragedy into action and courage, to run for Congress, to stand on this floor and share her personal story with us — that takes real courage,” Ms. Pelosi said from the House floor, adding that the statistics of gun violence victims “spell out the story, but it is the human, personal stories that change minds.”Wednesday’s vote, Ms. Pelosi said, sends “a clear message to the families of those who have lost their loved ones to gun violence, that we have crossed a threshold here today to reduce gun violence in our country.”The Republican measure attached to the bill would present a problem if a version of the gun bill cleared the Senate. The measure has angered liberals in the House, who would like to see it removed in House-Senate negotiations.AdvertisementSupported byBy Catie EdmondsonWASHINGTON — The House voted Thursday to extend the time allotted for the F.B.I. to conduct background checks for gun purchasers flagged by the national instant check system, the second major gun control bill to clear the chamber this week after two decades of inaction.Democratic leaders also succeeded in quelling a small rebellion among freshman Democrats from Republican-leaning districts, persuading them to oppose a politically freighted Republican procedural motion after they backed a similar motion on Wednesday.The 228-to-198 vote aims to extend the background check review period for gun purchasers to 10 days. Currently, the F.B.I. must perform its review and determine whether there is sufficient evidence to deny a purchase in three business days. If it cannot complete the review within that time, a buyer may return to the dealer on the fourth day to purchase a firearm.That provision in current law allowed Dylann S. Roof to purchase a handgun and kill nine people at a historic black church in Charleston, S.C., in 2015, even though he should have been denied his firearm.“Let’s give the F.B.I., the authorities, enough time to do their job and save lives,” Representative James E. Clyburn of South Carolina, the majority whip and the bill’s sponsor, implored his colleagues from the House floor.Both gun control bills that cleared the House this week face dim prospects in the Senate, but they were cause for celebration for the gun-control activists that mobilized last year after a series of horrific mass shootings.While Thursday’s bill was expected to easily clear the Democrat-controlled chamber, a dose of drama was added after House Republicans staged a successful ambush during the vote on the first gun control measure on Wednesday.In an attempt to divide Democrats and draw out vulnerable swing-district members, Republicans offered a provision that would require the F.B.I. to alert Immigration and Customs Enforcement if an undocumented immigrant tried to obtain a firearm. Twenty-six Democrats broke party lines to support the measure, catching Democratic leadership caught off guard.House Republicans tried a repeat ambush on Thursday, surprising Democrats with a last-minute motion to exempt victims of domestic abuse from the new 10-day waiting period. This time, following strict marching orders from Speaker Nancy Pelosi, the motion failed, with only two Democrats, Representatives Jeff Van Drew of New Jersey and Collin C. Peterson of Minnesota, voting for the measure.“Vote no, just vote no, because the fact is a vote yes is to give leverage to the other side and surrender leverage on the floor of the House,” Ms. Pelosi told reporters on Thursday.At a meeting of House Democrats before the vote, Representative Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez of New York implored moderates to vote against the Republican-led motions and, in an implicit threat, added that she would make it clear to liberal activists which members supported the Republican measures, according to officials in the room.But some moderate freshmen, including Representative Xochitl Torres Small of New Mexico, stood up and explained how difficult the votes have been for them.House Republicans have sought to weaponize the procedural motion, using politically fraught measures to test the new Democrats’ resolve. The measures rarely hold the force of law, but a no vote even on a procedural motion could show up in a 30-second attack ad next year. Republicans succeeded in attaching a resolution condemning anti-Semitism and the boycott-Israel movement to a bill designed to halt American aid to Saudi Arabia’s war in Yemen after even Democratic leaders gave up on opposing it.“All they want to do is feed red meat to their base,” Representative Veronica Escobar, Democrat of Texas, said of House Republicans. “I’m hoping that colleagues of mine will see it that way and understand that these procedural motions — even the best-worded procedural motion — has not had the chance to go through the process” of committee consideration.Amid concern that some Democrats will continue to break away on tough votes, some House leaders are weighing revising the rules to require Republicans to give them more notice on the content of procedural motions.Representative Joe Cunningham, Democrat of South Carolina, who has voted for Republican-backed motions, played down their importance on Thursday.“These little motions and minor bills should not take attention away from the fact that progress is being made to keep people safe,” said Mr. Cunningham, one of the co-sponsors of Mr. Clyburn’s gun control bill.Ms. Pelosi signaled that she was not keen to change the rules, but added that it could be a topic for consideration by a select committee studying potential changes to “modernize” the House.“I am a big believer in respecting the whole House and the rights of the minority to have their say,” Ms. Pelosi told reporters.The “Charleston loophole” bill did show some of the old divisions that have plagued Democrats in the past over gun control. Seven Democrats voted no, including freshmen Anthony Brindisi of New York, Jared Golden of Maine, Kendra Horn of Oklahoma, Ben McAdams of Utah and Ms. Torres Small of New Mexico, all of whom won Republican districts in November.Only three Republicans voted yes.AdvertisementSupported by An innovative technology calculates the optimal time to talk about reform.By Pat Kelly, Chris Kelly, Lauren Bercovitch, Michael Tanko Grand and Taige JensenAdvertisementSupported byBy Sheryl Gay StolbergWASHINGTON — Emboldened House Democrats, seeking a politically charged debate on gun control, unveiled legislation on Tuesday to expand background checks to nearly all firearms purchases, a move timed to mark the eighth anniversary of the mass shooting in Arizona that nearly killed former Representative Gabrielle Giffords.By introducing the measure less than one week after taking control of the House, Democrats are signaling that it is a top priority. A vote could come within the first 100 days of the new Congress. The measure, and a companion bill introduced Tuesday in the Senate, also reflects the changing politics around gun laws, an issue many Democrats once shied away from.The bill, which will almost certainly pass the House but will face a steep climb in the Republican-controlled Senate, would require background checks on the purchases of nearly all firearms, including those sold at gun shows and over the internet. There would be limited exceptions, including for law enforcement officers and for guns transferred between close family members.Polls have shown that a vast majority of Americans — by some estimates, 90 percent — support universal background checks for all gun purchases. Many Democrats, including Representative Lucy McBath, a freshman from Georgia whose son was shot and killed at a Florida gas station, were elected last year after promising to address gun safety.“Today we take a decisive step to help save lives right away,” said Representative Mike Thompson, Democrat of California and the bill’s chief sponsor, adding, “From public polling to the ballot box, the American people have spoken up and demanded action.”By limiting the bill to background checks — and keeping out other provisions such as a ban on assault rifles or high-capacity magazines — gun safety advocates hope to pressure Republicans on a policy that has broad public support. In the Senate, Mitch McConnell of Kentucky, the majority leader, will have to decide whether to bring up the bill. In the House, Republicans will be forced to vote on it.“It will show us who’s with us and who’s against us,” said Patricia Maisch, 69, who survived the Jan. 8, 2011, mass shooting in Tucson that killed six and grievously injured Ms. Giffords.But by narrowing the bill so dramatically, Democrats may also limit its utility. Suspects in many recent high-profile mass shootings — including those in Pittsburgh; Parkland, Fla.; Thousand Oaks, Calif.; Las Vegas; and Sutherland Springs, Tex. — had passed background checks when purchasing their weapons.Even modest gun law changes rarely make it through Congress. The measure is similar to one written by Senators Joe Manchin III, Democrat of West Virginia, and Patrick J. Toomey, Republican of Pennsylvania, in response to the mass shooting that killed 20 children and six adults at Sandy Hook Elementary School in Newtown, Conn., in 2012. That bill, pressed hard by President Barack Obama and the parents of Sandy Hook victims, fell to a bipartisan filibuster in 2013 in a Senate controlled by Democrats.Then as now, the National Rifle Association opposed the measure.“So-called universal background checks will never be universal because criminals do not comply with the law,” said Jennifer Baker, a spokeswoman for the powerful gun lobby. She noted that the gunman who shot Ms. Giffords passed a background check. His name did not come up in the federal database even though he had mental health issues.The Democrats’ measure was unveiled at a news conference featuring Speaker Nancy Pelosi of California, Mr. Thompson, who helped write the House companion bill to Toomey-Manchin in 2013, and Ms. Giffords, as well as gun safety advocates and victims of gun violence from around the country. Mr. Thompson escorted Ms. Giffords, who as a former member is still permitted on the House floor, into the chamber so she could formally drop the bill into the “hopper” — the bin, located on the rostrum, where all legislation has its start.Ms. Giffords, 48, a Democrat who once opposed gun control, was shot in the head during a constituent meeting she was holding in a supermarket parking lot. Those who died included a 9-year-old girl and a young staff member for Ms. Giffords; 13 were injured, including Ms. Giffords, who suffered a serious brain injury that makes conversation difficult.“It’s been a long, hard haul, but I’m getting better,” Ms. Giffords told reporters at a breakfast Tuesday, reading from a prepared statement. She said she was still undergoing “speech therapy, physical therapy — and yoga, too.”Current law requires only federally licensed gun dealers to perform background checks. Gun safety advocates say the law is riddled with loopholes that allow felons, domestic abusers and others who would ordinarily be prohibited from buying guns to purchase them through private sales, including online and at gun shows.For gun safety advocates and victims of gun violence, Tuesday’s bill introduction represents an important shift in Washington after a year of devastating massacres, including the mass shooting at Marjory Stoneman Douglas High School in Parkland, Fla., last February, which spawned a powerful youth movement.“Successful legislative change follows cultural change,” said Emily Nottingham, whose son, Gabriel Zimmerman, then an aide to Ms. Giffords, was killed in the Tucson shooting. She added, “When more and more people recognize that this is a national issue that can affect all of us, not just a few people somewhere else, then cultural change happens, and that’s what we’re seeing now.”Under the Thompson bill, anyone who wanted to sell a gun but lacked a license would have to take the weapon to a licensed dealer, who would then conduct a background check on the purchaser.Transfers between law enforcement officers and military personnel acting in a professional capacity would be exempt, as would “a loan or bona fide gift between spouses, between domestic partners, between parents and their children, between siblings, between aunts and uncles and their nieces or nephews or between grandparents and their grandchildren,” according to the text of the bill.Transfers to executors of estates would also be exempt, as would temporary transfers of weapons for the purpose of hunting or to “prevent imminent death or great bodily harm.”AdvertisementSupported byBy Tiffany HsuGun control activists have spent years trying to limit the number of assault-style firearms available to civilians: holding rallies, drafting proposed laws and backing campaigns by shareholders of publicly traded gun makers.Now, one advocacy group is focusing on a different pressure point: the consumer banks that provide loans and other financial support to the gun industry.The group, Guns Down America, which formed in 2016 after a mass shooting in Orlando, Fla., has created a ranking system that gives 15 banks letter grades based primarily on their ties to firearms makers and trade groups like the National Rifle Association.Six of the banks, including JPMorgan Chase and Wells Fargo, received failing grades. Citigroup earned the highest one, a B.Igor Volsky, Guns Down America’s founder and executive director, said he hoped the grading system would compel banks to be more publicly supportive of gun control measures, in the same way that many companies have taken positions on gay rights, immigration and other social issues.Part of the mission, he added, is stopping “the Wild Wild West of how gun manufacturers both produce military-style weapons and also how they can market those firearms.”“We’re not interested in shaming banks or running a campaign focused on how evil they are,” Mr. Volsky said. “Our end goal is to change the way banks make decisions when doing business with the gun industry.”The group used a 100-point scale that applied different weights to factors like a bank’s loans to and investments in gun makers; its public statements about gun safety; its support for lawmakers backed by the N.R.A.; and the discounts and deals it offers to N.R.A. members.The basis for the grades was publicly available information gathered from media reports, regulatory documents, campaign finance filings and other sources. Any undisclosed updates to gun-related deals, legal complications that might affect those arrangements and internal discussions were not reflected.Guns Down America said it had shared its methodology and individual grades with all 15 banks and was involved in continuing talks with some of them, but several banks contacted for comment said that they had not been consulted and that the group had relied on arbitrary metrics.In the past year, gun safety groups have begun looking more closely at the firearms industry’s corporate ties, with the scrutiny leading some businesses to make changes.After a mass shooting in Parkland, Fla., Delta Air Lines, Hertz and several other companies broke with the N.R.A., and retailers like Dick’s Sporting Goods made some guns harder to buy. Influential Wall Street figures like Laurence D. Fink, the chief executive of BlackRock, publicly embraced gun safety efforts.In March, estimated firearm sales in the United States slipped 12.6 percent from a year earlier, to nearly 1.4 million units, according to the research firm Small Arms Analytics & Forecasting.The financial industry’s connections to gun makers have drawn attention before. In December, The New York Times reported that many of the mass shootings in the past decade had been financed with credit cards.[Read out how banks unwittingly provide financing for mass shootings.]Some banks have already started to revise their policies and practices on firearms. Citigroup, which earned a score of 84 from Guns Down America, said in March 2018 that it would work only with clients that agreed to certain restrictions on firearm sales.A short time later, Bank of America said it would stop lending to companies that made military-inspired firearms for civilian use. It was subsequently criticized for its commitment to contribute $43.2 million in bankruptcy financing for Remington.Bank of America, which did not respond to a request for comment, got a C from Guns Down America.The six banks that received failing grades all had more than $200 million in recent financial arrangements with gun companies, according to Guns Down America.The group gave JPMorgan Chase a 48, finding that it had contributed $21,000 to politicians strongly supported by the N.R.A., and had a $273 million financing arrangement with Vista Outdoor. Guns Down America did not specify whether the money was directed only to Vista’s gun business, which the company had said it plans to sell.Marianne Lake, JPMorgan’s chief financial officer, said last year that the bank’s links to military-style firearms “have come down significantly and are pretty limited.” JPMorgan declined to comment on the Guns Down America grade.BB&T was last on the Guns Down America list. Its score of 20 was partly a result of its arranging $147 million in loans to the industry from 2012 to 2016 and partly a result of its recent involvement in a $78 million revolving credit line for Smith & Wesson, according to the gun control group.Brian Davis, a spokesman for BB&T, said the bank was “deeply concerned with the increasing amount of gun violence in our schools and communities,” and listened to “a wide range of opinions” on gun control. He said the bank did not comment publicly about its financial relationships.Guns Down America found that Wells Fargo, which fared slightly better at 25 points, had extended $471 million in loans and credit to gun makers since 2012, including a $40 million loan to Sturm Ruger last year. The N.R.A. also uses Wells Fargo, and the bank donated $92,000 to a group of lawmakers supported by the trade group, Guns Down America said.Trisha Schultz, a Wells Fargo spokeswoman, said in a statement that the bank planned to invest more than $10 million over three years in studying gun-violence prevention and in improving school safety. The bank, she said, has “a small and declining relationship with the N.R.A.”But Ms. Schultz added that “changes to gun laws and regulations should be determined through a legislative process that gives the American public an opportunity to participate and not be arbitrarily set by a bank.”“We do not believe that the American public wants banks to decide which legal products consumers can and cannot buy,” she said.Because of an editing error an earlier version of this article misidentified whose links to military-style firearms “have come down significantly and are pretty limited,” according to Marianne Lake, JPMorgan’s chief financial officer. Ms. Lake was referring to the bank’s links to such firearms, not Vista Outdoor’s links.Follow Tiffany Hsu on Twitter: @tiffkhsu.AdvertisementSupported byBy The Associated PressWELLINGTON, New Zealand — New Zealand lawmakers have voted overwhelmingly in favor of new gun control measures during the first stage of a bill they hope to rush into law by the end of next week.The bill would ban the types of weapons a gunman used to kill 50 people at two mosques last month.Only one lawmaker from the 120 that sit in Parliament voted against the legislation in a bipartisan display of unity. Tuesday's vote was the first of three that lawmakers must pass before the bill becomes law.AdvertisementSupported byThe Parkland students became a force for gun control legislation and boosted the youth vote. Here’s how they changed America’s response to mass shootings. By Margaret Kramer and Jennifer HarlanOn Feb. 14, 2018, a former student slaughtered 17 people at Marjory Stoneman Douglas High School in Parkland, Fla. The next day, David Hogg, a student who survived the attack, expressed his frustration at the pattern of political inaction that seems to follow mass shootings in the United States. He was not surprised that there had been another school shooting, he said, and that fact alone “says so much about the current state that our country is in, and how much has to be done.”“We need to do something,” he said. In the course of the next year, students would change the way the nation handles mass shootings, spurring new gun legislation and school safety measures, and holding to account the adults they felt had failed them.Here’s a look at where they made those changes happen, and where they were disappointed. With Parkland, it was the students who set the agenda. Their openness about their pain made them formidable leaders of the movement for gun control, and their displays of strength and utter grief struck a chord with a nation numbed by repeated acts of violence.In the weeks after the shooting, busloads of Stoneman Douglas students took their case to the Florida capital and to Washington. With a rallying cry of “Never Again,” they gathered support from other young people and activists, and their March for Our Lives campaign spurred huge rallies and hundreds of protests, including a nationwide school walkout. The students’ pleas reached the White House, imploring President Trump to better protect schools and limit access to guns. And the movement brought youth activism to a new age — finding global power in social media and pushing public officials to acknowledge their accountability. [Read how the Parkland massacre has changed the lives of the survivors in their own words.]Three months after the massacre in Parkland, 10 people were killed in yet another school shooting, this one in Santa Fe, Tex., compounding the Stoneman Douglas students’ outrage and resolve, and placing them in a new role: consoling those who were suffering as they were. “Something about Parkland has been different,” said Melissa Strassner, a survivor of the Columbine school shooting in 1999. “They truly have inspired a nation.”Stoneman Douglas students and parents were outraged by what they viewed as gross incompetence on the part of school and law enforcement officials. Video showed that a sheriff’s deputy assigned to the school did not enter the building as the attack unfolded. Seven other deputies remained outside as gunshots rang out, a state commission found. And another officer prevented paramedics from entering.The school district also appeared to have missed several warning signs about the former student charged in the massacre, Nikolas Cruz. The parents of two 14-year-old students who were killed decided to run for the school board to fix what they thought went wrong. One of them won.And in January, Florida’s new Republican governor, Ron DeSantis, suspended Sheriff Scott Israel for his “neglect of duty” and “incompetence.” Mr. Israel, who is a Democrat and a vocal opponent of the National Rifle Association, continues to insist that the criticism of him is politically motivated and that “there was no wrongdoing on my part.” Multiple deputies have also been suspended, and one ultimately resigned.In the case of Mr. Cruz, the warning signs were many. There were the boasts about killing animals, the expulsion, the stalking of a female classmate, the repeated calls from his mother to the police. School counselors and a sheriff’s deputy decided at one point that he should be forcibly committed for psychiatric evaluation, only to apparently change their minds the next day. Multiple tips to the F.B.I. were left uninvestigated — one woman told the bureau’s tip line she was worried about Mr. Cruz going “into a school and just shooting the place up.” At that time, there was no law in Florida that would have prevented Mr. Cruz from buying a gun or would have allowed the police to take away his weapon. A gun control bill the state passed in March now allows law enforcement — with judicial approval — to bar a person deemed dangerous from owning guns for up to a year. Florida courts granted more than 1,000 such orders in the first nine months after the law took effect, according to The Associated Press. Eight other states have passed similar “red flag” laws in the last year, bringing the total with such laws to 14. Several more states are expected to take up measures in 2019.State legislatures, both Republican- and Democratic-controlled, passed 76 gun control laws in the past year  — from bans on bump stocks and caps on magazine sizes to new minimum-age requirements and expanded background checks. Among the victories for gun control advocates was an omnibus bill in Florida that raised the minimum age to purchase a firearm in the state to 21 and extended the waiting period to three days. In all, more than half the states passed at least one gun control measure in 2018, with Washington and New York joining the trend in 2019. At the same time, there were significantly fewer new state laws expanding gun rights in 2018 than the year before, according to an end-of-year report by the national advocacy group Giffords. Data provided by the N.R.A. also indicated that the number of enacted gun control measures outnumbered pro-gun measures for the first time in at least six years.But at the federal level, any momentum for change was quickly stymied by partisan gridlock. Republican leaders in Congress remained silent as their Democratic colleagues called, once again, for changes in the wake of a mass shooting. The White House flip-flopped on promises to raise the minimum age to purchase rifles and to enforce universal background checks. And the N.R.A. pressed lawmakers, including the president, to give priority to the interests of gun owners.[Nearly 1,200 children have been killed by gun violence since the shooting in Parkland. Read how teenage journalists told their stories.]In the end, the only significant national change was a ban on bump stocks — which members of both parties had been calling for since the Las Vegas shooting in October 2017. The House of Representatives, where Democrats took power in January, has now made gun safety a priority, and the Judiciary Committee passed two gun-control bills on Wednesday that would strengthen background checks and close a loophole that allowed Dylann S. Roof to buy a gun that he used in the Charleston church massacre in 2015. But with a Republican Senate and president, the chances of either measure moving beyond the House are virtually nil.In the days after Parkland, a flood of threats and false alarms heightened the focus on school security nationwide. Schools have turned to an array of measures: hiring armed guards, requiring students to carry clear backpacks, arming teachers with baseball bats. Some campuses have added more cameras and metal detectors or hired companies to monitor students’ social media for potential threats — all of which has created a lucrative market for school security.The president voiced support in the days after Parkland for arming teachers with guns as a way to prevent further massacres. It was an early indicator of the tack that he and congressional Republicans would take in addressing the shooting. In March, Mr. Trump announced the creation of a federal commission to examine school safety proposals, including raising the minimum age for buying certain firearms. But two months later, Education Secretary Betsy DeVos informed a Senate committee that the commission would not look at the role guns play in school violence. Its final report played down the role of guns, and advised schools to improve mental health services and train school personnel to use firearms.When it became clear that Congress would not act on guns, the Parkland students turned their attention to rallying young voters and increasing turnout in the midterm elections in November.Madison Leal, a student at Stoneman Douglas, said in March about politicians who would not take action: “I’m going to vote them out of office. And so is my entire generation. And they’ll be sorry then.” In the summer, a busload of students traveled the country on a Road to Change tour aimed at registering young voters. In tandem with various voter groups and celebrities promoting registration, the Parkland students helped spike record numbers for young voter registration, registering thousands of voters at their rallies. The March for Our Lives campaign reported a 10 percent increase in youth turnout in 2018, compared with the previous midterm elections in 2014.AdvertisementSupported byBy Emily CochraneWASHINGTON — The House on Thursday rebuffed a furious lobbying campaign by the National Rifle Association and approved a revamped Violence Against Women Act that would expand law enforcement’s ability to restrict gun purchases by convicted domestic abusers.The legislation passed easily, 263 to 158, but the divided vote came on what was once a broadly bipartisan measure first passed in 1994. In recent years, partisan rancor over efforts to expand the protections of the legislation have clouded efforts to renew it, and this year, the divide was over gun control.The provisions would close the so-called boyfriend loophole and bar those under a restraining order or who were convicted of abusing, assaulting or stalking a domestic partner from buying guns. The N.R.A. seized on the new measures and warned Congress that it would track and publish how lawmakers voted, hoping to intimidate Republicans and Democrats in Republican-leaning districts.“Do not let the N.R.A. bully you,” Representative Debbie Dingell, Democrat of Michigan, urged her colleagues before the vote, noting that her recently deceased husband, former Representative John Dingell Jr., also a Democrat, was a member of the organization.Thirty-three Republicans bucked the threat and voted with the Democratic majority in favor of the legislation — among them, Representative Brian Fitzpatrick of Pennsylvania, the sole Republican sponsor of the reauthorization. Representative Jeff Fortenberry, Republican of Nebraska, voted present.Democrats, including all of the freshman members who won in districts swept by Donald J. Trump in 2016, stood up to the gun lobby, with only one — Representative Collin C. Peterson of Minnesota — voting no.Many in the new majority campaigned on tightening access to guns, and they appeared to embrace condemnation from the gun lobby as a badge of honor.“Lawmakers should be reading the tea leaves,” said Shannon Watts, the founder of Moms Demand Action for Gun Sense in America, a group that supports restricting gun laws. “In the midterm elections, it was gun safety that got people to the polls.”Other supporters of the legislation argued that the gun provisions made up only a fraction of the protections offered by the bill, and included invaluable resources for survivors.“This wasn’t a gun bill — this is a bill to protect women,” said Lisette Johnson, a member of the Everytown Survivor Network and a survivor of domestic abuse. “This passing today is really a huge support for women and keeping them safer.”Republicans had advocated a clean one-year extension of the current law, which expired in February, arguing that new elements of the legislation were controversial and overreached — in particular, the gun restrictions and language offering additional protections to transgender people.“Can we stop playing political games at the expense of vulnerable women?” asked Representative Elise Stefanik, Republican of New York, before the vote, arguing that the bill put forward by Democrats would “collect dust in the Senate.” (Democrats, who booed vigorously during her speech, rejected her motion.)The vote highlighted the stark contrasts between the new Democratic majority, with its historic number of women, and the Republican minority, which has struggled to attract female voters and to increase the number of conservative women holding office on Capitol Hill. Democrats framed opposition to the legislation’s renewal as a denial of protections for survivors of abuse, efforts to prevent domestic violence and support for law enforcement.Representative Sharice Davids, Democrat of Kansas and one of the first two Native American women elected to Congress in November, presided over the final vote on the measure, which contains a number of protections for women on tribal lands — including a new provision that would allow tribal courts to prosecute nonnative people accused of domestic crimes or dating violence on tribal lands.A number of Democrats, including Ms. Dingell and Representative Katie Porter of California, offered passionate defenses of the legislation, repeatedly drawing on their own experiences as survivors of domestic abuse.“I know that fear, I know that terror and I just want to try to save another family from going through that terror,” Ms. Dingell said at a news conference on Wednesday, recalling being afraid as a child that her father, who had mental illness and owned a gun, would harm her mother or her siblings. “Why would you not close that loophole?”Republicans, beyond objecting to what they said was an infringement on gun ownership, argued that the measure contained other proposals that were too broad for a law intended to protect survivors of assault. In previous hearings and speeches, they had singled out provisions that would expand protections for transgender people and require the Bureau of Prisons to consider the safety and protection of transgender prisoners when giving housing assignments.“We find ourselves debating a VAWA reauthorization act that is literally a Christmas tree of progressive liberal policy objectives, rather than an honest approach to reforming and updating such an important law,” said Representative Debbie Lesko, Republican of Arizona, who is a survivor of domestic abuse.The legislation heads to the Senate, where Senators Dianne Feinstein, Democrat of California, and Joni Ernst, Republican of Iowa, have said they will lead efforts to pass a version. It is unclear how many of the new gun provisions in the House legislation will prevail in the Republican-controlled Senate.“There are a number of improvements in the House bill that I think should be in our version, including preserving improvements already made in the 2013 reauthorization,” Ms. Feinstein said in a statement after the vote. “I hope the Senate will move quickly. This is an important law and one the Senate should take very seriously and act upon expeditiously.”Paul Manafort’s Trail of ScandalsMy Dead Dad’s Porno TapesTen Meter TowerBetween Sound and SilenceCoal Miner to Trump: “Coal Mining Isn’t Coming Back”House Tour | Cary LeibowitzSanctuary City HotlineAdvertisementSupported byBy Sheryl Gay Stolberg and Catie EdmondsonWASHINGTON — House Democrats are poised this week to adopt legislation requiring background checks for all gun purchasers, the first major expansion of gun control laws in a quarter century and the opening salvo in a broader drive to address an issue that once sharply divided the party.In back-to-back votes, the House will take up two separate background check measures. On Wednesday it will consider the Bipartisan Background Checks Act, which would require background checks for all firearm sales, including those sold at gun shows and online. On Thursday it will turn to the Enhanced Background Checks Act, which would extend the time allotted for the F.B.I. to conduct background checks.The action in the House reflects dramatic changes in the political climate over guns that culminated with last year’s midterm elections. A string of mass shootings, coupled with student-led activism after last year’s massacre at Marjory Stoneman Douglas High School in Parkland, Fla., produced a wave of Democratic candidates — including some from Republican-leaning districts — who ran and won while calling for limits on access to guns.“It’s a real moment for the nation,” said one of those Democrats, Representative Lucy McBath of Georgia, who began advocating for gun control after her 17-year-old son, Jordan Davis, was shot dead in 2012. “We’re at a critical mass now where families are just saying they’ve had enough.”Both measures face dim prospects in the Republican-controlled Senate. Senator John Thune of South Dakota, the No. 3 Republican, said Tuesday it was “unlikely” the Senate would take them up.But this week’s House action is still significant. The last time Congress passed major gun control legislation was 1994, when an assault weapons ban was enacted, along with the so-called Brady Bill, which required background checks on most gun sales.Democrats were punished roundly at the polls that year, with Republicans taking control of Congress and not relinquishing it for 12 years. For years afterward, Democrats were skittish about taking up gun-related bills.The assault weapons ban expired in 2004, when Congress was under Republican control. When Democrats held the House from 2007 to 2011, no gun legislation was passed.“There are still differences within our party as to how far we want to go,” Representative Steny D. Hoyer of Maryland, the House Democratic leader, told reporters on Tuesday. But Mr. Hoyer said he is convinced that the two bills being voted on this week have the support of the “overwhelming majority of the American people.”Robin Lloyd, the managing director of the Giffords Law Center to Prevent Gun Violence, praised House Democrats for prioritizing the measures, noting that just a year ago, the Republican-controlled House tried — but failed — to pass legislation that would have required states to recognize concealed weapons permits issued in other states, effectively creating a national law allowing concealed weapons. That bill is a high priority for the National Rifle Association.“Now we’re having the opposite conversation, and I do think that demonstrates how quickly this shift has happened,” Ms. Lloyd said. “It is a paradigm shift from where we were even 18 months ago.”House Republicans, however, have been scathing in their criticism of the bills.“This bill turns law-abiding citizens into criminals and it’s one more step toward federalized gun registration and ultimately gun confiscation,” said Representative Steve Scalise of Louisiana, the Republican whip, who was shot in the hip and gravely wounded in 2017 when a gunman fired on members of the Republican congressional baseball team practicing in Virginia.Republicans including Mr. Scalise argue that expanding background checks would not have prevented many of the mass shootings that have garnered public attention in recent years. Most of those massacres were carried out with guns purchased legally by gunmen who passed background checks.The bills to expand background checks are the first in what could be a series of measures to address gun violence, said Representative Mike Thompson, Democrat of California, who leads a congressional Gun Violence Prevention Task Force. Mr. Thompson said the group has a “pretty aggressive schedule” and is bringing in experts to advise on what will reduce gun violence.Ms. McBath, a task force member, said the group is also looking at measures to reduce children’s access to guns, and also “red flag laws” that give authorities or household members the ability to seek court orders that would prohibit gun purchases by those deemed a risk to themselves or others.Congress did pass a modest gun-related bill last year, the so-called Fix Nics Act, which required federal agencies and states to do a better job of reporting criminal offenses and other information into the national instant check system, or Nics. And since the Parkland massacre, gun safety advocates have made great strides outside the capital; in 2018, legislators in 26 states and the District of Columbia passed 67 gun safety measures, according to a recent analysis by the Giffords Law Center.The last time Congress considered major gun safety legislation was in 2013, after the massacre that killed 20 children and six adults at the Sandy Hook Elementary School in Newtown, Conn.With survivors of mass shootings looking down from the gallery — and amid cries of “Shame on you!” — the Senate at that time fell short of the 60 votes required to break a filibuster on a bipartisan bill similar to the measure the House will take up Wednesday. That bill’s sponsors, Senators Joe Manchin III, Democrat of West Virginia, and Patrick J. Toomey, Republican of Pennsylvania, did not sound optimistic on Tuesday about the prospects for reviving it.“I need some help,” Mr. Manchin said. “I need some Republican help.”Mr. Toomey said he has been “working to try to find where we could get to consensus.” But, he added, “It’s looking like it’s an uphill battle to get 60 votes.”Thursday marks the 25th anniversary of the Brady Bill, named for James. S. Brady, the White House press secretary injured during an assassination attempt on President Ronald Reagan in 1981. That bill took more than six years and seven votes to pass, according to Kris Brown, president of the Brady Center to Prevent Gun Violence, which this week is rebranding itself under the name “Brady.” But it did not address gun show sales or sales over the internet, which have exploded since then.“For us at Brady, it’s a really meaningful and frankly almost emotional moment,” Ms. Brown said, referring to the coming House votes.Under federal law, if a gun consumer does not pass a background check instantly, the F.B.I. has three business days to determine whether there is sufficient evidence to deny a purchase. If they are unable to do so, on the fourth day, the purchaser can return to the dealer and buy a gun.Paul Manafort’s Trail of ScandalsMy Dead Dad’s Porno TapesTen Meter TowerBetween Sound and SilenceCoal Miner to Trump: “Coal Mining Isn’t Coming Back”House Tour | Cary LeibowitzSanctuary City HotlineAdvertisementSupported byBy Damien CaveCHRISTCHURCH, New Zealand — When the prime minister announced plans to ban semiautomatic rifles following Friday’s mass shootings, it seemed to be the bold response that many New Zealanders wanted — until the country’s attorney general backpedaled almost immediately and said that might not be the government’s final decision.Even after a massacre that left 50 people dead, the fight over guns and safety will be a fraught one for politicians in peaceful New Zealand, just as it is in the United States.But there is a crucial difference between the two countries that is already apparent: While Washington struggles to take action even as such shootings become more routine, New Zealand’s government is immediately diving into a detailed discussion of further legislative checks on guns.The outright prohibition of semiautomatic weapons proposed by Prime Minister Jacinda Ardern may no longer be on the near-term table. But she’s made clear that lawmakers will look at a range of options, from gun buybacks to restrictions on magazines for semiautomatic rifles.“New Zealand has to have this debate,” said Alexander Gillespie, a law professor at the University of Waikato, who once predicted that the country’s approach to firearms would lead to more mass shootings. “This is a place where your car has to be registered, your dog has to be registered. But your gun doesn’t.”[New Zealand will open an inquiry on what was known about the gunman before the massacre.]New Zealand’s relationship to firearms amounts to a sliding scale of restrictions. Gun owners need a license, but the most commonly used guns, like hunting rifles, are never registered and can be easily bought and sold in large quantities. Handguns and semiautomatic weapons are more closely tracked, requiring a permit for each purchase and a separate license — making it harder but not impossible to amass an arsenal.The mix of freedom and regulation reflects the country’s frontier history, according to experts, who note that New Zealand’s link to weaponry bears a resemblance to the United States, Australia and Canada, but with a few important distinctions.Many Americans can buy a gun in less than an hour. In New Zealand, the process can take weeks or months.There is no right to own a gun here, as there is in the United States; rather, it is considered a privilege with responsibility.The gun culture that has developed tends to be organized, careful and not particularly widespread. Of the 3.9 million New Zealanders of gun-licensing age, 238,000 — 6 percent — have a firearm license, according to GunPolicy.org.In the United States, according to a Pew study from 2017, three out of 10 Americans report owning at least one firearm.New Zealand has also been comfortable with the idea of restricting access to certain weapons for almost as long as the country has existed. In 1845, colonial leaders tried to stop the flow of muskets into tribal areas.After a mass shooting in 1990, when a man killed 13 people, including two 6-year-olds, after a dispute with his neighbor in the seaside town of Aramoana, New Zealand’s Parliament added additional license requirements for semiautomatic weapons and handguns.“On the whole New Zealand doesn’t prohibit firearms,” Mr. Gillespie said. “New Zealand reacts with regulations.”After a handful of failures to push through stronger rules over the past decade, he and others said, the question now is how far the government will try to go to further control guns.Some gun owners argue the laws on the books are enough, and that no amount of additional legislation would have prevented Friday’s massacre.“First of all, this is insanity,” said Mike Loder, a contributor to Kiwi Gun Blog. “We know why he did it. He did it in revenge for a Muslim killing people with a truck. It wasn’t about guns.” Mr. Loder was referring to the shooter’s own widely reported account of his radicalization.But compared with those in the United States, conversations about guns tend to be calmer and less ideological in New Zealand. Many New Zealanders seem eager to find some middle ground, with the latest round of arguments over the country’s gun laws inevitably being shaped by countervailing forces.On the one hand, with its current gun laws, New Zealand had one of the lowest murder rates in the world, as of a week ago. But the horrific bloodshed at the two mosques has clearly shaken what had been the country’s prevailing sense of safety.“We’ve lived in a utopia, but the world’s caught up with us,” said Chris Cahill, head of the Police Association, a union of police officers. “Our innocence is gone.”A shift may already be rippling through the country.On Sunday morning, Raymond Healey, 49, a member of the Christchurch Pistol Club, arrived at a local shooting range, hoping to get some time firing at targets. He was greeted with a white sign, painted in red capital letters: “range closed.”Wearing olive green fleece, khaki pants and untied boots, Mr. Healey said he wasn’t surprised given news of the shootings. He said the gun backlash was also to be expected.“I can understand why people would want more restrictions,” he said.He added that he’d be willing to consider changes. “There are always improvements that could be made to the law,” Mr. Healey said. “There probably are loopholes.”One of the main ones, experts say, involves how easy it is to turn a legal semiautomatic weapon into an illegal killing machine with magazines of ammunition that go beyond what is allowed.Under New Zealand law, the most common A license allows for the purchase of a semiautomatic rifle with a magazine containing seven bullets. An E license is needed for semiautomatics with larger magazines, and it can only be obtained through a more elaborate process of interviews and references.But there are no restrictions on the purchase of magazines.“Anybody can buy them without a license,” Mr. Healey said. “I thought for a long time you shouldn’t be able to do that.”On Saturday, the police said the gunman had modified a “category A firearm,” suggesting that he purchased a semiautomatic with the basic license then added magazines with illegal levels of firepower.Ross Mason, the chairman of the National Rifle Association of New Zealand, which is not connected to the American N.R.A., also said the purchase of magazines raised issues.But he cautioned against a wider ban on semiautomatic rifles in general.“The reason they became available here is because we were trying to eliminate deer from our forest and bush and other four-legged pests, so there was a lot of shooting of these animals from helicopters,” Mr. Mason said. “You needed to have something to fire shots very quickly.”Out of concern that gun sales might be significantly restricted, Radio New Zealand reported that there was a rush on gun stores this weekend, with people “panic buying” weapons.Prime Minister Ardern seems to be listening, at least for now, to all sides in the debate.She also seems determined to do what the United States Congress has not, which is to act.“Our gun laws will change — now is the time,” Ms. Ardern said Saturday. “People will be seeking change, and I am committed to that.”Reporting was contributed by Emily Steel, Charlotte Graham-McLay and Jamie Tarabay from Christchurch; and Danny Hakim from New York.Want more coverage from Australia and New Zealand? Sign up for the weekly Australia Letter, start your day with your local Morning Briefing and join us in our Facebook group.AdvertisementSupported byBy The Associated PressWELLINGTON, New Zealand — New Zealand lawmakers on Tuesday voted overwhelmingly in favor of new gun restrictions during the first stage of a bill they hope to rush into law by the end of next week.The bill would ban the types of weapons a gunman used to kill 50 people at two mosques last month.The bill was backed by both liberals and conservatives, with only a single lawmaker from the 120 that sit in Parliament voting against it. The vote was the first of three that lawmakers must pass before the bill becomes law.Police Minister Stuart Nash said far too many people have access to dangerous guns and lawmakers were driven by the need to ensure public safety."We are also driven by the memory of 50 men, women and children who were taken from their loved ones on the 15th of March," Nash said. "Their memory is our responsibility. We don't ever want to see an attack like this in our country again. We are compelled to act quickly."Seemingly drawing a distinction with the U.S., where gun possession is constitutionally protected, Nash said that in New Zealand, gun ownership remains a privilege and not a right.Conservative lawmaker David Seymour voted against the bill, saying it was too rushed."Doing it in nine days before politicians go on their Easter break is starting to look more like political theater than public safety," he said.But Seymour was so busy explaining to reporters his reasons for opposing the bill that he missed a procedural vote in which he could have tried to slow its passage.Many New Zealanders were shocked at the firepower the gunman was able to legally obtain and favor the legislative changes.Some are opposed. More than 14,000 have signed a petition filed in Parliament which says the law changes are "unjust" for law-abiding citizens and are being driven by emotions.AdvertisementSupported byBy Vivian Wang and Jesse McKinley [What you need to know to start the day: Get New York Today in your inbox.]ALBANY — New York lawmakers on Tuesday approved the most comprehensive set of gun bills in the state in six years, including measures that would ban bump stocks, prohibit teachers from carrying guns in schools and extend the waiting period for gun buyers who do not pass an instant background check.In total, six gun bills passed easily through the State Senate and Assembly, a remarkable sight in a Capitol that for years had resisted almost all new legislation on the subject.Gov. Andrew M. Cuomo, a Democrat, last ushered a major gun safety package into law in 2013, after the massacre at Sandy Hook Elementary School in Newtown, Conn. The governor successfully corralled recalcitrant Senate Republicans into supporting the so-called Safe Act that expanded the state’s ban on assault weapons, tightened certification requirements, increased criminal penalties for illegal guns and closed private sale loopholes.Mr. Cuomo has described the Safe Act as one of his signature achievements. But it has also become a rallying cry for some gun owners and Republican politicians who felt it overreached.“Sometimes history irrefutably bears out your actions,” the governor said on Tuesday, at a news conference lined with gun safety advocates. “Today is the next evolution in this ongoing crusade.”The relative ease of the laws’ passage highlighted, for the second time in just two days, the upheaval that November’s election brought to Albany. Democrats captured the Senate for the first time in a decade, delivering one-party control of state government. Since the legislative session began this month, both chambers have sent long-stymied bills in rapid-fire procession to the governor’s desk.On Monday, for example, a bill to protect child sex abuse victims sailed through the Legislature, 13 years after its introduction. The Senate, which under Republican rule never allowed the bill to reach the floor for a vote, unanimously approved it.Tuesday’s marquee gun bills passed largely along partisan lines. No Republican senators voted to extend the waiting period for completing background checks to 30 days from three. Just one voted for the proposal to ban arming teachers.The most debated item was a so-called red flag bill, which would allow family members, school officials or law enforcement to ask courts to temporarily block someone from buying or owning a gun, if the judge decided that person posed a potential risk.That provision in particular drew an emotional response from Linda Beigel Schulman, whose son, Scott, grew up on Long Island and was teaching at Stoneman Douglas High School in Parkland, Fla. during the massacre there last year; he was killed while helping students flee the shooter.“Parkland would’ve never happened if they had a red flag law,” Ms. Schulman said while sitting alongside Mr. Cuomo, adding that one of the killer’s former teachers told her that the shooter had showed disturbing tendencies.Senator Brian Kavanagh, a Democrat from New York City who sponsored the bill, said the number of New York state residents who die each year — 772 in 2017, according to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention — because of guns “is unacceptable.” He added: “It’s also preventable.”California, Washington, Indiana and Connecticut have similar provisions to keep guns away from high-risk people.Republicans suggested the bill would allow people to randomly curtail Second Amendment rights for many New Yorkers.“Today’s actions infringe upon the rights of law-abiding citizens,” said Senator Pamela Helming, from Central New York.The bill ultimately passed the Senate 42-21, and the Assembly 83-32.A few proposals did earn Republican votes: those that would establish a gun buyback program, and that would prohibit the sale of bump stocks, which enable semiautomatic rifles to fire in sustained, rapid bursts. A bill allowing New York regulators to access mental health records for out-of-state gun buyers passed nearly unanimously.The governor acknowledged that strengthening New York’s gun laws could invite legal challenges from gun advocacy groups and activists, given the conservative tilt of the Supreme Court. The high court’s justices recently announced that they would review a New York City gun law, the court’s first Second Amendment case in nearly a decade.Several Republicans accused Democrats of grandstanding by pushing laws that already exist; for example, President Trump imposed a federal ban on bump stocks last year after the mass murder of 58 people in Las Vegas. (The ban is regulatory, however, not statutory, and several groups have announced their intention to challenge it in court.)Mr. Cuomo, a frequent and favorite antagonist of the National Rifle Association, has been accused of politicizing gun control for his own benefit. But he also has a long record of fighting for stricter gun regulations, and he has frequently pointed out that his public support, especially upstate, never fully recovered after passage of the Safe Act.On Tuesday, Democratic leaders in the Legislature also made their antipathy to widespread gun use clear.“I personally don’t agree with it, but I respect it,” the Assembly speaker, Carl E. Heastie, said of the Second Amendment.Senator Andrea Stewart-Cousins, the Senate majority leader, promised further action in the coming months. The only other major gun legislation passed since the Safe Act was a law last year to take guns away from domestic abusers.“It will not be six years, believe me, between sensible gun laws,” she said.AdvertisementSupported byThe EthicistBy Kwame Anthony AppiahAs a gun owner who abhors the ‘‘slippery slope’’ philosophy of the N.R.A., every new mass shooting sickens me. I would like to sell one of my three weapons and give the proceeds to March for Our Lives or Everytown for Gun Safety. Is it better to: 1) Sell it knowing the $750-$1,000 would do some good; 2) Keep the gun knowing it won’t be used; or 3) Destroy it/surrender it to the police for disposal? Name WithheldBy the ‘‘slippery slope’’ philosophy of the N.R.A., I assume you mean its tendency to argue that any proposed gun regulation is a step toward canceling the Second Amendment: to equate restriction with abolition. I assume too that you think that some of these mass shootings could have been stopped by laws that the N.R.A. opposes and that are nevertheless consistent with the Constitution. The gun-control organizations you mention share those beliefs; sending them a check would express your support and enable you to join the community of people trying to do something about gun violence.But the case against (1) is that your check, which isn’t going to make the difference between success and failure for either of these gun-control groups, scarcely changes the likelihood of future gun deaths, while selling the gun marginally increases the likelihood that it will end up being used in a crime. As for (2), you can’t be absolutely sure that a gun won’t cause harm just because it’s in your house. For one thing, someone might break in and steal it; for another, you might use it against yourself. Suicide, remember, accounts for a majority of gun-related deaths. If you went for (3), you could render the gun harmless by having it destroyed, but doing so wouldn’t much change the likelihood of future gun deaths, either.One reason that I have misgivings about what’s been called ‘‘quandary ethics’’ — ethics conceived of as solving puzzles like these — is that, as in this case, it can be close to impossible to calculate the costs and benefits of the various outcomes you consider. A deeper problem is that there are typically options you haven’t considered. In this case, you could wait for a gun-buyback program — they’ve had these recently in many cities — and send the money (which would be less than the market value of your weapon) to one of these organizations, thus both supporting gun control and making sure that the weapon won’t be used for malign purposes.For that matter, you could throw yourself into the work of one of these organizations, which are going to succeed only if more of their supporters aren’t content with just sending them money. The influence of the N.R.A. can’t be reduced to the power of the purse; though its political expenditures far exceed those of gun-control groups, its finances are surprisingly precarious. And note that the labor sector, say, hugely outspends it, while its political power has seemed to diminish. Many political experts would say that the N.R.A.’s ability to mobilize its millions of members has a lot to do with its efficacy. If gun control matters to you, your support shouldn’t be limited to your checkbook.I agreed to sponsor a cousin’s immigration application, which involved affirming I can and will provide the applicant with a financial safety net for seven years. I’d met the cousin only once, but I count his aunts among my favorite relatives and was told by his father that he is financially independent, hardworking and eager to contribute to his new homeland.With the process underway, my cousin’s father came to visit, and the two insisted on conveying their gratitude by hosting my family at a brunch. Somehow the subject of Trump came up. Though my husband and I did not vote for the president, we maintain relationships with friends and family who did. Yet hearing the young man that we put on the road to citizenship express his admiration for Trump and his anti-immigration policies struck us as odd. I prodded ever so gently: At what point should the president close the gate — before or after your papers are finalized? Without a hint of irony, he clarified that, of course, he was referring to the wrong kind of immigrants. Hours later, I couldn’t shake the notion that we’d made a terrible mistake. Yes, my husband and I refuse to allow politics to define our social circle, but could we remain neutral, knowing that we’d inadvertently recruited a new supporter of Trump’s views on immigration, which we regard as racist — or worse? And if we decide that we cannot, should we break with our extended family by revoking our support of my cousin’s application? Or could we let the cousin know that we find his views on immigration hypocritical and make our ongoing support of his application contingent on his joining the 50 percent of Americans who choose not to exercise their right to vote? Name WithheldI’m not sure you’ve found a great way to model social tolerance. Your cousin sounds pretty blinkered in his views, I’ll grant. But adding one more bigot to the American population isn’t going to make a difference in our politics. And if he ends up, as is most likely, living in one of our great, culturally plural metropolises, his views on immigration may well evolve. Either way, it would be wrong to try to blackmail him into not exercising the right to vote — and ineffectual, because such an agreement would be unenforceable.Nor is it fair, at this point, to pull out from your affidavit of support, unless you think that something you were told and that you therefore attested to was substantially untrue. You do have every right to tell him — like anyone else who expresses political views you consider odious — why you think he’s wrong. Given what you have done for him, he owes it to you to pay attention to what you say. But if your sponsoring your cousin was right, it didn’t become wrong when you learned about his opinions.The point can be broadened. Policies you support in principle aren’t invalidated when their beneficiaries turn out to have vexing or perverse views. We don’t withdraw Social Security Disability Insurance from those who think that its other beneficiaries are largely wastrels. We don’t deny Medicare coverage to those who are skeptical of the program. We can’t give up on public-health measures to reduce suicide simply because suicide rates are highest in ‘‘red state’’ regions that aren’t inclined to back such measures. And a partisan who favors only the expanded immigration of people inclined to support her party isn’t interested in immigration reform; she’s interested in allies. Your cousin’s views, as I say, may evolve; perhaps yours will, too.My stepdaughter-in-law confided in me that she is planning on leaving my stepson. They have a young child. She also informed me that she’s gay. She asked me to be discreet with this information, but I feel compelled to do something; I don’t feel that it’s fair for my stepson to be hit out of the blue. Is there a way for me to encourage her to talk to her husband, or should I say something directly to him? I’m fine with keeping the information about her sexuality secret. It’s more her plan to dump him that is weighing on me. I’m concerned not only for his well-being but also for how this secret could affect my relationship with him if he finds out I knew and didn’t say anything. Name WithheldAdvertisementSupported byBy Nick Corasaniti[What you need to know to start the day: Get New York Today in your inbox.]It began as an operation targeting a cocaine ring in southern New Jersey. But after investigators listened to a wire tap, the case took on an unexpected focus: do-it-yourself firearms made from parts easily found online.The suspects in New Jersey are accused of trying to sell several homemade AR-15 assault-style rifles that are known as ghost guns because they cannot be tracked. The AR-15 rifle is a powerful weapon similar to the one used to kill 11 people last year at a Pittsburgh synagogue.On Monday, New Jersey law enforcement officials announced the arrests of four men who became the first defendants charged under a law passed last year that makes it illegal to buy, manufacture, possess or sell homemade guns in the state. California is the only other state that restricts such weapons, but New Jersey’s version is far more stringent, according to national gun control groups.In fact, one of the suspects is heard on a wiretap specifically citing New Jersey’s law and saying they had to move the weapon sales out of state.“Ghost guns are a real and dangerous menace,” Gurbir Grewal, the attorney general of New Jersey, said in a news conference in Camden where he discussed the case. “They offer criminals, convicted felons, terrorists, domestic abusers, people who we all agree shouldn’t access firearms, the ability to access them.”New Jersey already has some of the country’s toughest gun laws, but buying parts individually and assembling them at home — often with the help of online videos and instructions — could allow people with criminal records and others who would not pass background checks to obtain guns.Marketed to gun enthusiasts who enjoy building their own firearms, companies that sell kits are making it easier for guns to circulate illegally, law enforcement authorities and gun control advocates said.“You go to some of the websites, they offer you discounts if you buy a pack of five or a pack of 10,” said J. Adam Skaggs, the chief counsel and policy director at the Giffords Law Center to Prevent Gun Violence. “Now, you ask yourself, am I going to buy a discounted 10-pack of ghost guns because I want to build myself 10 guns to use at the range? Or am I going to buy a 10-pack if I’m a would-be trafficker who wants to start a little factory of my own and sell these at a markup to people who can’t pass a background check?”Across the country, there have been arrests involving ghost guns with the accused charged with violating other state and federal laws. In New York, a police sergeant was accused of selling ghost guns to members of a motorcycle gang who had criminal records.The difficulty of disrupting illegal ghost gun operations is underscored by the circuitous route that led authorities to the trafficking ring in New Jersey.The investigation began as a probe into a large cocaine ring in Lindenwold, a town in Camden County, Mr. Grewal said. Law enforcement authorities only became aware of the illegal gun trafficking through conversations between two of the alleged members of the criminal network that were secretly recorded.“They changed some law,” one suspect was recorded saying, “so we gotta go over to Philly to pick them up.”A second suspect said, “We just gotta go out of state now.’’The suspects would have parts for guns shipped across the Delaware River to Pennsylvania to get around the New Jersey law, and then would bring them back into the state, Mr. Grewal said.Law enforcement officials eventually recovered six AR-15 rifles made from parts without serial numbers, which were being offered on the black market for $1,100 to $1,300, nearly double the market price for an AR-15 assault-style rifle. They also intercepted parts for two more assault-style rifles that had been shipped to Pennsylvania.Another eight men were also arrested as part of the illicit operation and were charged mostly with drug-related offenses.Though these were the first arrests for trafficking ghost guns under the new law, Mr. Grewal said other ghost guns have turned up in the state. The State Police had recovered “well over 15 in the last year,’’ he said.“We are starting to see them at crime scenes,’’ he added. “We are starting to see them in our investigations. They are not an abstract threat. They are a real threat to public safety.”There are multiple investigations into ghost gun manufacturers and criminal networks, Mr. Grewal said. But, he added, responsibility also rests with manufacturers.“When you see repeatedly the same address and the same individuals at the same location continuing to order parts and parts and parts and parts for the same types of guns, some red flags have to go up,” Mr. Grewal said.Follow Nick Corasaniti on Twitter: @NYTnickc AdvertisementSupported byBy Mike IvesIt was the liquor talking, apparently.Two officials from an anti-immigrant political party in Australia said on Tuesday that an undercover recording of them explaining the political influence that money from the American gun lobby could potentially buy was not what it seemed.Their comments, they said, were just small talk made over rounds of scotch.In the recording, James Ashby, the chief of staff for Pauline Hanson, leader of the One Nation party, is heard to say that his right-wing party could “own” the Australian Senate and House of Representatives with a $20 million donation from the American gun lobby.The recording — by a reporter for Al Jazeera — was made in the United States during a trip last year, just weeks before an Australian law banning foreign political donations took effect.The recording was revealed on Monday in the first part of a two-part Al Jazeera documentary, “How to Sell a Massacre,” for which the Australian reporter Rodger Muller posed for years as a gun-rights advocate.Through the guise of a fake organization called Gun Rights Australia, Mr. Muller introduced Mr. Ashby and Steve Dickson, the One Nation party’s Queensland leader, to representatives from the National Rifle Association and Koch Industries during a trip to the United States in September.On Tuesday, Prime Minister Scott Morrison said on Twitter that reports of One Nation officials soliciting donations from the American gun lobby “to influence our elections & undermine our gun laws that keep us safe are deeply concerning.”Mr. Morrison, the leader of Australia’s Liberal Party, also accused One Nation of trying to “sell Australia’s gun laws to the highest bidders,” and said the revelations were another reason Australians should not vote for the One Nation party in general elections expected in May.Bill Shorten, the leader of the opposition Labor Party, accused One Nation of a “betrayal of the Australian political system.”“The idea of One Nation political party operatives going to the United States, seeking millions of dollars, promising to water down gun law protection in Australia — that was absolutely horrifying,” Mr. Shorten said.But Mr. Ashby told reporters on Tuesday that the meetings with the N.R.A. had been about sourcing technology and gaining “an understanding of how they operate.” He said they were never about requesting $20 million, and that he and Mr. Dickson had traveled to the United States on a fact-finding mission.“The conversations that have been recorded where there is talk of $10 and $20 million dollars — I’ll be the first to admit, we’d arrived in America, we’d got on the sauce, we’d had a few drinks,” Mr. Ashby said.“And that’s where those discussions took place,” he continued. “Not with any potential donors. No one but Rodger Muller, Steve Dickson and myself.”Many Americans can buy a gun in less than an hour. In New Zealand, the process can take weeks or months.Mr. Dickson said that Mr. Muller, the journalist, had “seemed to be a very reasonable guy” — an impression he said was bolstered by Mr. Muller’s Akubra bush hat, akin to an American cowboy hat. He said the conversation was merely a product of “having scotches for three or four hours.”“I never, ever, suspected in my wildest dreams that that guy was employed by a Middle Eastern country, by Al Jazeera, as an Australian spy to interfere in Australian politics,” Mr. Dickson said.Al Jazeera, a satellite network based in Qatar and owned by that country’s government, said in a report on Tuesday that the documentary “provides a rare inside view of how the N.R.A. deliberates over mass shootings and seeks to manipulate media coverage to push its pro-gun agenda.”In an email, Jennifer Baker, the director of public affairs for the N.R.A., called Al Jazeera a “state-owned anti-gun” network and said, “At no time did the N.R.A. contribute funding to any Australian political party or Gun Rights Australia.”The Australian government introduced some of the world’s toughest gun laws in 1996, after a gunman with a semiautomatic rifle killed 35 people in the town of Port Arthur.The rate of intentional gun deaths in Australia had fallen about 33 percent from 1986 to 1996, the year of the Port Arthur massacre. But the decline accelerated after the new gun control measures were enacted, with the rate dropping about 60 percent from 1996 to 2006. President Barack Obama later cited the laws as a potential model for the United States.One Nation’s website says that the focus of its firearms policy is to “move away from trying to criminalize firearms ownership to punishing criminals for the use of firearms to commit crimes.” Among other measures, the party’s platform calls for reducing waiting periods for handgun purchases.In response to the new documentary, One Nation said in a statement that its members always complied with the law. It also called Al Jazeera “a state owned propaganda arm of the Qatari government that supports Islamic extremist groups and are not a legitimate media organization.”In 2017, Ms. Hanson, the party’s leader, sparked controversy by walking into the Australian Senate wearing a burqa as a way of drawing attention to her party’s push to ban full-face coverings in public. The move drew strong criticism from other senators.AdvertisementSupported byBy Sarah MervoshIt took New Zealand just six days to announce an immediate plan to change to the nation’s gun policy after a gunman killed 50 people at two mosques in Christchurch last week.On Thursday, a day after the first victims were laid to rest, Prime Minister Jacinda Ardern announced a national ban on all military-style semiautomatic weapons, all high-capacity ammunition magazines and all parts that allow weapons to be modified into the kinds of guns used in last week’s attack.Ms. Ardern is expected to encounter little resistance in Parliament. The new law could be in place as soon as April 11.It is unclear how the weapons ban will be felt in New Zealand, where there are plenty of guns but relatively few murders. Since 2007, gun homicides have been in the single digits every year except in 2009, when there were 11.But the swift action already stands in stark contrast to the federal response to mass shootings in the United States, which has the highest rate of gun ownership in the world and is one of only a few countries that start with the assumption that gun ownership is a right, not a privilege.After a gunman killed 58 people in Las Vegas in 2017, it took 443 days for the United States to ban bump stocks, the attachments that enable semiautomatic rifles to fire in sustained, rapid bursts, which the gunman used in the attack. And after a mass shooting at a high school in Parkland, Fla., last year led to a wave of student activism, the House of Representatives voted to require background checks for all gun purchasers in February. It was the first significant gun control bill to clear the chamber in a quarter of a century, but it was unlikely to even be taken up in the Republican-controlled Senate.In most countries, mass shootings account for a small proportion of gun deaths. But they are often the political impetus for legislative change that can help prevent other kinds of gun violence, including intimate-partner violence and suicide.Here is a look at how some other countries took action after mass shootings.____Ms. Ardern said the overhauls planned in New Zealand were partially inspired by changes Australia made after a mass shooting there in 1996.After a gunman with a semiautomatic rifle killed 35 people near a popular tourist site in the Tasmanian town of Port Arthur, John Howard, Australia’s conservative prime minister at the time, introduced a federal law to officially make guns a privilege, not a right. Gun owners were forced to provide a valid reason for owning a weapon, such as farming or hunting. Licensing rules were tightened, a 28-day waiting period for gun purchases was imposed and a national gun registry was established.The overhaul also severely restricted firearms, including a ban on almost all automatic and semiautomatic rifles, as well as shotguns. Australia bought back more than 650,000 firearms, to the resentment of many rural gun owners.Australia has not had a shooting as deadly as the Port Arthur massacre since 1996. Research shows the country also saw a decline in homicide and suicide after the legislative change, although researchers disagree about whether the ban can be credited for reducing homicides, which had already been declining.Australia is a much smaller country than the United States and also had fewer barriers to enacting gun control: There is no constitutional right to bear arms, for example, and there are no pro-gun lobbying groups with the influence of the National Rifle Association.____In 1987, a gunman in the southern English town of Hungerford killed 16 people, leading to tough British laws that required shotgun owners to register their weapons and prohibited semiautomatic weapons.Nearly a decade later, another gunman walked into a primary school in Dublane, Scotland, and killed 16 small children and their teacher. The gunman had been granted permits for all four guns used in the shooting, including two semiautomatic pistols.Afterward, the British government took action to limit gun ownership by civilians. By the end of 1997, Parliament had outlawed the private ownership of nearly all handguns.____In 2002, a 19-year-old expelled student returned to his high school in Erfurt, in eastern Germany, armed, and killed 16 people.That year, the German government tightened gun laws, including raising the legal age for carrying sports weapons to 21 from 18 and requiring gun buyers under 25 to present certification that they are medically and psychologically fit.Germany strengthened gun laws even further after another shooting in 2009, when a 17-year-old got his hands on one of his father’s guns and went on a rampage at his school in Winnenden, in southwest Germany, killing 15 people. The new regulations included allowing for random checks on weapons owners.As of 2015, gun-related crimes were far more unusual in Germany than in the United States.____Canada has had tough restrictions on handguns and automatic weapons since the 1930s. But the rules were expanded to include rifles and shotguns after a gunman with a semiautomatic hunting rifle stormed an engineering school in Montreal in 1989.Shouting “I hate feminists,” he separated the women from the men and killed 14 female students before turning the gun on himself.After that shooting, rifles and other long guns had to be registered like handguns and a majority of semiautomatic weapons. Gun owners were also required to obtain a license.But the long gun registry was unpopular in rural and northern areas, and, over the objections of police forces and some provinces, was abolished in 2012.Efforts to keep track of rifle and shotgun sales — the majority of firearms in Canada — continue to be much debated. The province of Quebec introduced its own long gun registry last year.Max Fisher contributed reportingFollow Sarah Mervosh on Twitter: @smervoshAdvertisementSupported byCases like one on the Supreme Court docket this term often lead to more injuries and deaths.By Jonathan M. MetzlDr. Metzl is a professor and the research director at the Safe Tennessee Project.A case before the Supreme Court this term could significantly affect whether densely populated cities like New York have the right to set their own gun policies.At a glance, New York State Rifle and Pistol Association v. City of New York is a limited dispute. It pits residents who have “premises licenses,” which allow them to possess guns only at their homes, against a New York City ordinance that restricts their travel with their weapons to shooting ranges and clubs within city borders. If the petitioners — a gun advocacy group along with three of these individuals — prevail, those with premises licenses will be allowed to take their handguns with them to out-of-town ranges. Not a big deal, right? Actually, it is. The case has implications far broader than sport shooting. If the court decides against the city, New York City and other cities around the country could become far more dangerous places.As a university professor and the research director of a Southern gun violence prevention organization, I’ve spent the past eight years tracking how state and local-level court rulings and legislation promoted as limited in scope lead to sweeping changes in the ways people buy, carry and use firearms. Time and again, I’ve found that seemingly modest relaxation of local gun laws like the one at issue in New York undercut the ability of cities and communities to set their own regulations, and alter ways that people live and die.For instance, in 2007, pro-gun politicians in Missouri repealed a seemingly arcane 1921 law governing the purchase of concealable firearms. Supporters of the repeal (backed by the National Rifle Association) pitched the change as simply easing a tedious and outdated requirement that prospective gun buyers fill out paperwork in person at sheriff’s offices. But this modest action was the first rumbling of an avalanche. Missouri gun proponents built on the repeal to legalize “permitless carry” by anyone 19 years of age or older, nullify local gun-control ordinances, expand “stand your ground” protections and empower citizens to carry weapons into restaurants, bars, streets, schools and seemingly everyplace else. The police even lost the ability to disarm anyone carrying a firearm unless the individual was under arrest. The inability of local government to make gun laws threatened to turn Missouri into the “Wild West,” in the words of an exasperated City Council member in Webster Groves.In Tennessee, N.R.A.-supported politicians pushed through legislation allowing guns in parks. Only after passage did people discover that the law weakened the state’s ability to restrict weapons at concerts and state fairs. A 2017 law in Arkansas permitted guns on college campuses — which made guns legal at Southeast Conference football games and other large sporting events. So-called guns-in-trunks laws in Ohio and some other states allowed employees to store guns and ammunition in their vehicles while at work — followed by jumps in the number of guns stolen out of cars. Sweeping open-carry legislation in Texas meant public libraries could not keep guns out of the stacks.While these changes expand gun rights for certain people, they invariably lead to significant increases in  injuries and deaths. Right-to-carry laws correlate with increases in violent crime and rising homicide and suicide rates, and also raise the likelihood that incidents of conflict like road rage or domestic arguments will turn fatal. For instance, homicides committed with guns in Missouri increased by 25 percent in the three years after the 2007 repeal, and more Missouri guns were recovered in crimes in neighboring states. Gun suicides rose over this period as well. Data from the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention shows that states with the weakest gun laws and highest rates of gun ownership invariably have the highest rates of overall gun mortality. A recent study found that they also have higher rates of mass shootings.Beyond the direct health effects, allowing guns in public spaces changes how we interact with one another. My research shows that people become more wary when they think a stranger might be armed — a mistrust that fuels further gun sales. Racial tensions and stereotypes often accompany this anxiety. “I see white guys walking around Sam’s Club with guns on their hips,” an African-American man in Missouri told me, which he saw as armed racial intimidation.In an ideal world, New York City might serve as a model for effective gun policy. Gun-related injuries and deaths have been falling for the past decade — not coincidentally, over the same period that the city got serious about gun laws. New York has remarkably low rates of gun trauma for a United States city of its size. Municipal and state laws and regulations also effectively limit gun trafficking. Much of this success results from policies that would most likely be in jeopardy should the Rifle and Pistol Association case go against New York — for instance, restrictions on where people can carry guns and prohibitions on tourists’ bringing weapons into the city. Perhaps most important, regulations governing how people carry guns in New York City differ from those applied in parts of the state that have long and respected traditions of firearm ownership, such as in upstate New York.At stake in cases like Rifle and Pistol is the possible nationalization of disastrous policies from pro-gun states — not just loosened gun laws but also pre-emptions of how state or local governments can decide what works best. If the Supreme Court rules in favor of the plaintiffs in any one of these types of cases, the decision could signal that more significant gun control laws might not withstand legal challenges. Additionally, the justices could expand Second Amendment protections beyond the home, an issue left open in previous Supreme Court decisions, and could open the door to overturning longstanding laws governing concealed-carry, gun permitting and other restrictions enacted at the local and state levels.The current composition of the court suggests we should brace for decisions that upend local and state regulations in favor of nationally mandated policies that make it ever easier for people to purchase and carry guns. The nomination of President Trump’s first court appointee, Neil Gorsuch, was buoyed by a $1 million ad campaign by the National Rifle Association. And his second appointee, Brett Kavanaugh, wrote a 2011 circuit court dissent in which he argued that Washington, D.C., could not ban semiautomatic rifles on its streets because the right to bear arms superseded its interest in public safety.Missouri, Tennessee and Washington are not New York City. People are generally not allowed to carry guns around New York City, to safeguard the delicate and at times tense choreography that gives the city its charm. New Yorkers cram into crowded subway cars, brush by one another on busy sidewalks and drive haltingly through traffic-filled streets. This bustle of the everyday builds on often unspoken communal understandings of neighborliness and trust.But imagine a New York where more and more of your neighbors carry guns. If the Supreme Court sides with the complainants in Rifle and Pistol, you won’t need to imagine.Jonathan M. Metzl is a professor at Vanderbilt University and the author of “Dying of Whiteness: How the Politics of Racial Resentment is Killing America’s Heartland.”AdvertisementSupported byBy Simon Romero and Timothy WilliamsALBUQUERQUE — New Mexico’s governor is feuding with county sheriffs, accusing them of going “rogue” by refusing to enforce new gun control legislation. Counties in Oregon are passing militia-backed measures against stricter gun laws. Washington State is warning sheriffs they could face legal action if they don’t run enhanced background checks approved by voters.As states have approved dozens of restrictive gun control measures since the shooting at Marjory Stoneman Douglas High School in Parkland, Fla., last year, efforts to resist such laws have gathered strength around the nation as rural gun owners say their rights are being violated.“This is just a gun-grab measure,” Shane Ferrari, the sheriff of San Juan County, said of a provision that requires background checks on most gun sales in New Mexico, signed into law this month by Gov. Michelle Lujan Grisham, a Democrat.Sheriff Ferrari, a Republican, said he believed that the new law was a violation of the Second Amendment and the state’s existing gun laws, and that he would not enforce it unless a court ruling told him to do so. And all but a handful of counties in New Mexico have expressed similar opposition.The impasses — between local sheriffs and elected officials in states now controlled by Democrats — are raising the specter of a constitutional showdown over enforcement of the new gun laws. Some of the gun rights advocates say they are simply drawing inspiration from strategies employed by liberal critics of the Trump administration: They compare their efforts to declare “Second Amendment sanctuary” counties to so-called sanctuary cities opposing the federal government’s immigration crackdown.“Critics are calling these new laws Gestapo-style tactics when that’s the furthest thing from the truth,” said Victor Snover, the mayor of Aztec, a town in San Juan County that was shaken by a school shooting in 2017 in which a former student killed two students and himself.Mr. Snover, a Democrat who is also a teacher at Aztec High School, called the measure “common sense and reasonable.” He added, “But unfortunately we live in a hyperpartisan time when avoiding tragedies isn’t viewed as reasonable.”In New Mexico and elsewhere, the disputes generally reflect tension between cities that support stricter gun laws and rural areas that want to bolster protections for gun owners. The pushback against new laws generally seeks to maintain existing gun ownership rights; most have not yet been challenged in court.The disputes around the country over the gun control measures raise vexing questions about the rule of law. Governors claim that local sheriffs cannot pick which laws to enforce, but some states have already grappled with low compliance with other gun laws.“There’s a real tension on this issue between urban and rural identities that doesn’t necessarily fit nicely into party loyalties,” said Lonna Atkeson, a political-science professor at the University of New Mexico. She noted that some of the counties vehemently opposing the state’s new gun control legislation are solidly Democratic.Elsewhere, dozens of counties in Illinois have approved “gun sanctuary” resolutions meant to signal local discontent with gun control measures approved by the State Legislature, which is dominated by Democrats.Among the measures approved by Illinois last year was one requiring a 72-hour waiting period for all gun purchases and a so-called red flag bill, which allows relatives and law enforcement officials to ask courts to confiscate firearms from people deemed a threat to themselves or others.In Oregon, where the State Legislature is currently debating several gun control measures — including a bill that would forbid the sale of assault rifles to people under 21 — voters in eight counties have approved ordinances stating that residents have the right to own semiautomatic weapons and high-capacity magazines, even if federal and state law bans them.Some of the most public discontent, however, has come in Washington, where a divide between rural and urban areas has become a recurring political split.In November, nearly 60 percent of Washington State voters approved an initiative prohibiting anyone under 21 from purchasing a semiautomatic rifle and requiring buyers to undergo enhanced background checks. (State law already barred those under 21 from buying a handgun.) Long guns that employ manual operations, including pumps and bolts, could still be purchased at age 18.The law also mandated a 10-day waiting period and completion of a firearms training course. The initiative also allowed prosecutors to charge gun owners with crimes if the gun was stored improperly and someone unable to legally own a gun used it to commit a crime.Most of the law is scheduled to take effect July 1, though the Second Amendment Foundation, a nonprofit group based in Washington State that supports gun rights, has filed a lawsuit seeking to block it.Already, though, more than a dozen sheriffs in Washington have said they will refuse to enforce the law.That has set up a showdown between them and Bob Ferguson, the attorney general.Mr. Ferguson has warned the sheriffs that they have a legal responsibility to enforce the new law in the same manner they are sworn to uphold other laws prohibiting criminal activity.“Local law enforcement officials are entitled to their opinions about the constitutionality of any law, but those personal views do not absolve us of our duty to enforce Washington laws and protect the public,” Mr. Ferguson wrote in a letter last month.But Bob Songer, the sheriff of Klickitat County, a rural county in southern Washington, said that the law violated gun owners’ rights.“There is no way in hell I’m going to be going after their guns if they are honest citizens,” he said. “What I’ve told people is: I’m not giving up my guns, and I don’t expect them to give up theirs.”The sheriff dismissed the pressure from the state’s attorney general to abide by the law.“They are not the boss of the sheriff,” he said. “The only bosses I have are the voters of Klickitat County.”Simon Romero reported from Albuquerque and Timothy Williams from New York.AdvertisementSupported byBy Danny HakimThe flash point was Thomas the Tank Engine.Last September, the National Rifle Association’s famously combative spokeswoman, Dana Loesch, provoked widespread outrage when she took to the gun group’s streaming service to mock ethnic diversity on the popular children’s program “Thomas & Friends,” portraying the show’s talking trains in Ku Klux Klan hoods. Now, growing unease over the site’s inflammatory rhetoric, and whether it has strayed too far from the N.R.A.’s core gun-rights mission, has put its future in doubt.The site, NRATV, is a central part of the organization’s messaging apparatus. Since its creation in 2016, it has adopted an increasingly apocalyptic, hard-right tone, warning of race wars, describing Barack Obama as a “fresh-faced flower-child president,” calling for a march on the Federal Bureau of Investigation and comparing journalists to rodents.In recent weeks, in a rare airing of internal debate at the N.R.A., two prominent board members expressed concerns about NRATV to The New York Times. Their statements were released through the N.R.A. itself, amid what was described as an internal review of NRATV and its future.“Since the founding of NRATV, some, including myself and other board members, have questioned the value of it,” Marion Hammer, the group’s most formidable lobbyist and a key adviser to its chief executive, Wayne LaPierre, said in a statement. “Wayne has told me and others that NRATV is being constantly evaluated — to make sure it works in the best interest of the organization and provides an appropriate return on investment.”The reassessment underscores a debate within the N.R.A. over how broad its activism should be. And it comes as the organization faces a storm of challenges, including a series of mass shootings that has created a new generation of gun-control activists.Congressional investigations into the N.R.A.’s possible Russia ties were energized after Maria Butina, a suspected Russian agent, pleaded guilty in December to using the N.R.A. in a political influence operation. And the organization, incorporated in New York, may have a potent foe in Letitia James, the state’s recently elected attorney general, who has vowed to investigate the N.R.A.’s tax-exempt status.As falling membership dues put the N.R.A. under further strain, board members have also expressed concern about the size of payments to the ad firm that produces NRATV, Ackerman McQueen. The firm and its affiliates pocketed $40 million from the N.R.A. in 2017; billings directly to Ackerman have increased nearly 50 percent since 2015. One prominent host, Dan Bongino, left amid cutbacks at NRATV, but he said the site had tried to retain him.Ackerman, a partner to the gun group  since the “I’m the N.R.A.” campaign of the 1980s, runs the NRATV Twitter account, has done polling work for the organization and revamped its gun safety program for children. It has also been credited with a slick makeover of Mr. LaPierre — who, in the words of one former N.R.A. lobbyist, previously resembled an “introverted chess champion.”Mr. LaPierre’s wife, Susan, has worked for an Ackerman subsidiary, and there has come to be a revolving door between the two companies, with many employees having worked by turns for both NRATV and Ackerman.Oliver L. North, the N.R.A. president, has a contract with Ackerman, though the N.R.A. would not disclose its size. As part of the relationship, Mr. North, a former Fox News pundit, hosts media programming and special events, like the show “American Heroes,” which recently began airing on NRATV.The N.R.A., a nonprofit, has also directed $18 million since 2010 to a private company jointly owned by executives of Ackerman and the N.R.A., according to records and interviews.“It is clear to me that NRATV is an experiment and Wayne is evaluating the future of the enterprise,” Willes K. Lee, a board member who leads the N.R.A. Outreach Committee, said in a statement to The Times.After the Thomas the Tank Engine video, he said, Mr. LaPierre appeared “livid and embarrassed” in a meeting with the outreach group. “He apologized to the entire committee and spent hours listening to our concerns.”Ms. Loesch has emerged as NRATV’s most visible host, deriding gun-control advocates as “tragedy-dry-humping whores” and vowing to combat the left with what she called the “clenched fist of truth” — a body part that the comedian John Oliver said was located “a little past the bent elbow of nonsense.” In one video, she warned The Times, “We’re coming for you”; in another, she threatened to burn a copy of the newspaper.Chuck Holton, an NRATV correspondent, attributed terrorist activity in Europe to “the broader problem of multiculturalism and socialism” and to “gender-bending.” He also claimed that left-wing groups, the billionaire George Soros and the Venezuelan government were trying “to influence the 2018 midterms by sending Honduran migrants north in the thousands.”Grant Stinchfield, a host, claimed that “all radicalized terrorists are Muslims,” overlooking mass shooters like Dylann Roof, who killed nine black churchgoers in Charleston, S.C., in 2015.Such far-ranging commentary has raised questions among some N.R.A. members about the scope of the organization’s messaging.“The N.R.A. shouldn’t be putting this out,” said Jeff Knox, an N.R.A. member who runs the Firearms Coalition, a smaller advocacy organization. “It’s not gun rights; it’s red meat for the hard right.”Mr. Knox’s father, Neal, was an N.R.A. board member who played a leading role in an effort to fire Ackerman in the 1990s amid discontent over its growing influence. A faction loyal to Mr. LaPierre ultimately prevailed, leading to a purge of the board and allowing the two organizations to become more deeply intertwined.“Why are we getting so involved in left-right politics instead of sticking close to our issue, the Second Amendment?” the younger Mr. Knox asked.Ackerman declined to comment, but in a recent interview in The Oklahoman, Revan McQueen, the firm’s chief executive, said his company’s approach was evolving from pure advertising to a “philosophy of branded news.” As Ackerman’s website puts it, “Every brand must be its own media company.”To that end, the firm has created video networks for the Chickasaw Nation and the Integris health care system of Oklahoma, though their content is relatively benign. A recent episode of ChickasawTV, for example, featured a visit to an art gallery. Over on NRATV, a host was calling liberalism “a mental disorder.”Beyond NRATV, the N.R.A. backed Ackerman’s performance.“When Ackerman McQueen began working with the N.R.A., the association was little more than a fledgling grass-roots operation,” Andrew Arulanandam, an N.R.A. spokesman, said in a statement.“The N.R.A. is now the most effective advocacy organization of its kind,” he said, adding that the firm had created “a national platform for the N.R.A.” and that it was “an important partner.”During the N.R.A. power struggle in the 1990s, a board member filed a complaint with the Federal Election Commission, claiming that an N.R.A. contract with an Ackerman subsidiary “was done without any ‘request for proposals’; any bidding process; and no competitive bidding.”The commission decided in a 6-0 vote not to take action, but criticisms have persisted.“The N.R.A. is willing to play fast and loose with tax regulations,” said Marcus S. Owens, a partner at Loeb & Loeb who served for a decade as director of the Exempt Organizations Division of the Internal Revenue Service.Ms. James, the New York attorney general, presents a new threat. Last year, she told Ebony magazine that the N.R.A. held itself “out as a charitable organization” but was actually “a terrorist organization.”William A. Brewer III, the N.R.A.’s outside counsel, said Ms. James had given no indication when she was a candidate that “the N.R.A. had done anything improper,” adding that she had instead promised “a taxpayer-funded fishing expedition.”A number of  transactions could draw scrutiny. Since 2010, the N.R.A. has paid $18 million to a company that produces “Under Wild Skies,” a hunting show on NRATV. Tyler Schropp, the N.R.A.’s advancement director, came to the organization in 2010 from Ackerman, and had a stake in the production company until at least 2017, but “no longer holds any interest,” Mr. Brewer said.Federal rules restrict transactions that confer economic benefits on key executives of tax-exempt organizations.Mr. Brewer described Mr. Schropp’s stake as “a minuscule interest” that the N.R.A. found not to be objectionable. Payments related to “Under Wild Skies” emerged only recently in N.R.A. tax filings.Other issues unrelated to Ackerman could also surface. The N.R.A. has transferred more than $100 million since 2012 from an affiliated charity that also lent the N.R.A. $5 million in 2017. Donations to the charity, the N.R.A. Foundation, are tax-deductible, while those to the N.R.A. are not.“If you’re doing a program that’s charitable, you run it through the charity,” said David G. Samuels, a partner at Duval & Stachenfeld who served in the charities bureau of the New York Attorney General’s Office, which oversees tax-exempt organizations. Such practices raise “red flags,” he said.Like some nonprofits, the N.R.A. has been lucrative for its top executives. Mr. LaPierre’s compensation rose from less than $200,000 in the mid-1990s to nearly $1.5 million in 2017. It spiked to more than $5 million in 2015, largely because of a retirement plan payout.A review of public records found that the N.R.A., which has about 550 employees, has disclosed that 41 employees, contractors, vendors or consultants have relevant family relationships to others connected to the organization, including a “niece-in-law” of Mr. LaPierre who was hired as a consultant.“The N.R.A. strives to comply with all applicable regulations,” Mr. Brewer said, adding that the organization has a “conflict-of interest-policy” and that “vendor agreements are reviewed and approved” by the board’s audit committee when appropriate.With New York regulators circling, it’s no surprise that the state’s politicians have become fodder for NRATV — particularly the governor, Andrew M. Cuomo, whose administration is already engaged in a legal fight with the gun group. Recently, the site even targeted Albany, describing it as “Graft City.”Whatever happens to NRATV, few expect the N.R.A. to become much less combative. Mr. LaPierre, in a speech this month, described the organization’s approach as “full-contact advocacy,” adding, “We are going to fight back against anyone who attempts to silence us.”An earlier version of this article referred imprecisely to Dan Bongino’s separation from NRATV. While he left the video streaming service amid a round of layoffs, it is unclear whether his job was among those eliminated.Susan C. Beachy and Jack Begg contributed research.AdvertisementSupported byBy Mihir ZaveriPeople under 21 are no longer able to buy semiautomatic assault rifles in Washington as of Jan 1. It is the first of several new state measures intended to reduce gun violence. The National Rifle Association has already filed suit.Previously, state law barred the assault weapons’ sale to those under 18. The new rules, approved by voters in a ballot initiative in November, come alongside dozens of moves by other states to strengthen gun control regulations in the absence of federal action.“It is a meaningful step in the right direction,” said Christian Heyne, legislative director at the Coalition to Stop Gun Violence, on Washington’s initiative. “Gun violence on the whole is such a complex problem. We need to have complex solutions, comprehensive solutions. This is a part of that conversation.”In addition to the age restrictions, Washington’s new rules state that gun dealers must wait 10 days before delivering semiautomatic assault rifles they sell. That is designed, in part, to prevent impulsive action. The rules also require anyone buying a semiautomatic assault rifle to have completed a gun safety training in the last five years. The measure also imposes criminal penalties for unsafe gun storage, and requires more extensive background checks for purchases of the assault weapons.Most of the new rules take effect in July.“Every component is extremely important,” said Renee Hopkins, chief executive of the Alliance for Gun Responsibility, the group that sponsored the ballot initiative. “This package really looks to reduce suicide, reduce accidental shootings and also reduce everyday gun violence, interpersonal gun violence, that we see playing out.”The Nov. 6 ballot initiative passed with more than 59 percent of the vote.According to the Giffords Law Center to Prevent Gun Violence, state legislatures in 2018 passed 69 gun control measures, more than any other year since the Newtown, Conn., massacre in 2012, and more than three times the number passed in 2017. They included adding or improving state background checks, increasing regulations for concealed firearms and restricting firearm use for domestic abusers.Opponents of Washington’s ballot initiative said its provisions to safely store guns would make them “unavailable” for self-defense. It also said that banning sale of semiautomatic assault rifles to 18- to 20-year-olds “would leave already vulnerable segments of the population defenseless to attack.” The N.R.A. and the Second Amendment Foundation have filed a lawsuit saying that the age restrictions violate the Constitution.But gun control groups say public pressure has been mounting in response to recent high-profile mass shootings, including the slaughter at a country musical festival in Las Vegas that left 58 people dead and hundreds wounded in October 2017; and multiple shootings in 2018 at schools around the country, particularly at Marjory Stoneman Douglas High School in Parkland, Fla. In that shooting, a 19-year-old man killed 17 people with an AR-15 semiautomatic rifle in February.Mr. Heyne said Washington’s move, while not unique, is a “bellwether” for what could happen in the rest of the country.Gun-related deaths are increasing. The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention reported in December that the nearly 40,000 people who died from firearms injuries in the United States in 2017 was more than any other year since at least 1968. Nearly two-thirds of those deaths were suicides. The rate of gun deaths also increased to 12 deaths for every 100,000 people, the highest since the mid-1990s.Some states like California and Connecticut have near-total bans on assault weapons, according to the Giffords Law Center. Assault weapons, generally thought to be more lethal, have been used in deadly mass shootings like those in Parkland, Las Vegas, Newtown and San Bernardino, Calif.A New York Times analysis published in February found that 173 people have been killed since 2007 in mass shootings involving AR-15s. Yet they don’t make up a large chunk of gun violence in America, Mr. Heyne said.Ms. Hopkins said that existing laws already ban the sale of handguns to those under 21, and that the age change for semiautomatic assault rifles seeks to make the law consistent for the different type of firearms.Gun control figured heavily in the 2018 election, as gun control groups outspent the N.R.A. Congress has generally failed to pass any meaningful legislation. A federal ban on the manufacture of certain “assault weapons” took effect in 1994. It expired in 2004.No attempts to reinstate the federal assault weapons ban have been successful. In December, the Trump administration banned bump stocks, attachments that enable semiautomatic rifles to fire in sustained, rapid bursts.Gun rights organizations have succeeded in blocking other proposals at the federal level. And they are vowing to fight the states as well.“The N.R.A. will fight to overturn this unconstitutional initiative,” Chris W. Cox, executive director of N.R.A.’s Institute for Legislative Action, said of the Washington law, when the lawsuit was announced. “We will not sit idly by while elitist anti-gun activists attempt to deny everyday Americans their fundamental right to self-defense.”The N.R.A. did not respond to a request for comment Wednesday after the law took effect.“The gun lobby is trying to thwart the will of nearly 60 percent of Washingtonian voters who supported common-sense gun reform in our state,” Bob Ferguson, the state attorney general, said in a statement Wednesday. “We were not surprised the gun lobby filed a lawsuit. I look forward to representing the people of the State of Washington in court against the N.R.A.”Follow Mihir Zaveri on Twitter: @MihirZaveri.AdvertisementtranscriptHosted by Michael Barbaro, produced by Clare Toeniskoetter and Alexandra Leigh Young, and edited by Lisa Tobin“It’s hard to differentiate what’s from the shooting and what’s from regular teenage anxiety.” Four students who survived the massacre at their high school told us how it had changed them.Thursday, February 14th, 2019michael barbaroFrom The New York Times, I’m Michael Barbaro. This is “The Daily.” Today: It’s been one year since the shooting at Marjory Stoneman Douglas High School in Parkland. “Daily” producer Clare Toeniskoetter went to Florida this week to check in on some of the students we met last year. It’s Thursday, February 14.clare toeniskoetterLast year, a few weeks after the Marjory Stoneman Douglas High School shooting, my colleague Jack Healy went down to Parkland and interviewed a group of freshman girls who were in the first classroom that the shooter went into, classroom 1216.studentI’ve thought about this, about being in a school shooting. And the one thing that I’ve always said that I would do is text my mom, “I love you,” and, like, “Thank you for everything.” And I was so mad at everything that I wasn’t going to be able to get to do that, and I was going to die and not let my mom know that I loved her.clare toeniskoetterAnd in that classroom, these girls saw eight of their classmates get shot.studentAnd then I just hear a few shots happen over here. And then I see Alyssa, and she’s just standing like this. And then she, like, falls back.clare toeniskoetterAnd three of them were killed. So Jack interviewed the girls, but I was the producer working on “The Daily” episode. And over the past year, I just haven’t stopped thinking about them. I’ve thought about them each time there’s been another mass shooting. I’ve thought about them on election night. And I thought about them just pretty much every time I’ve seen a group of teenagers. So as we approach the one-year anniversary of the shooting, I wanted to check back in with them.flight attendantPlease take a moment to locate the zone on your boarding pass.clare toeniskoetterSo I flew down to Florida, got the group back together at one of their houses. They grabbed a few snacks. And they all settled in on a couch.clare toeniskoetter (to the students)Tell me who you each are.jadeI’m Jade.clare toeniskoetterJade. And Jade, how old are you?jadeUh, 15.maddieI’m Maddie and I’m 15.clare toeniskoetterMaddie.brookeI’m Brooke and I’m 15.clare toeniskoetterBrooke.edenEden and I’m 15.clare toeniskoetterAnd Eden.clare toeniskoetter (to the students)And you’re about to turn 16?edenYep.clare toeniskoetterAnd they immediately just started talking about the last time they were all here together in the same room.edenI feel like it’s like after you see somebody in a movie, and it’s during something, and then you know when they have the 10 years later, and they cut their hair, and they — I feel like that now.jadeI mean, I did change my hair. [LAUGHTER]edenI feel like a different person than who I was when I was last sitting here.clare toeniskoetterWhat do you think you felt like then? What do you feel like now?edenI feel like now, I don’t know, in a way I feel burnt out a little, just like — I feel like I’ve been through hell. Like hell.maddieThis year has been exhausting.edenAnd at that moment, I feel like I was so innocent.clare toeniskoetterWhat were those first weeks back like? So it was about halfway through the school year. And what was a typical day like? Did it feel like normal school at all?brookeNo. Being together was the only good part about that.edenIt was weird. Because the setting was different. And then it was just that feeling in the room.jadeThat emptiness.edenIt’s like, oh my God, the kid who sat there died.clare toeniskoetterWas there ever a day when it felt normal, ever, like in your whole last school year?brookeIt kind of never feels normal. We have a new normal, I feel like. My normal is seeing the 1200 building every day and having flashbacks and then moving on.jadeOr like, oh, that happened.brookeExactly.edenAfter three months, I would say, is when it wasn’t all we thought about all the time. Like that wasn’t the feeling I had.jadeLike, summer was a good —maddieSummer was a good time.clare toeniskoetterYeah?maddieYeah, I’m not going to lie.jadeSummer was like, I was at my happiest.maddieWe were finally away from the building every day.clare toeniskoetterI wasn’t sure if summer would feel good or bad, being — because then you don’t have that built-in support group. But were you — did you stay with other Douglas students enough during your summers?brookeAll of our friends and stuff like that completely understand. At least for me, I talk about it with them all the time. And I for sure feel like I can trust them more than I can a therapist. Because they understand me and they know me. So it’s a lot more personal.clare toeniskoetterSo your friends who were also in school.jadeYeah, exactly.edenI don’t talk about it with anyone. Like, no one. I just can’t.clare toeniskoetterNot even friends?edenNot even my closest friend. It’s really hard for me to talk about it, because my closest friends, most of them weren’t in the building. And it’s just like, what is it going to help me to talk about it? They’re going to feel bad for me, and then what?clare toeniskoetterHow’s it feel right now?brookeI think it’s different when there’s someone in the building. Because all of my friends that weren’t, they feel like they can’t even talk to me about their day, because they don’t want to make me feel bad that they’re talking about it — which, like, that sucks, because I want my friends to be able to talk to me about it. Like, I have no problem with people who weren’t in the building talking. Just don’t act like where I was and where you were is the same thing. That’s my only thing.edenDon’t even try to compare it. It’s just like, it’s different.maddieIt’s different. It’s very, very different.brookeIt’s completely different.clare toeniskoetterShifting into the new school year, how did it feel coming back?maddieI hated it.edenIt was awful.clare toeniskoetterYeah?jadeIt was just like, oh, like, oh.brookeWe’re back here?clare toeniskoetterSo one of the things, from my understanding about going back to school last year, is everyone who was at the school was there on the day of the shooting. But then when you came back to school this year, for this new school year, there’s now a new class. There are freshmen who weren’t there. What is that like?maddieNot good.clare toeniskoetterWhy?brookeThe thing is, some of them are actually very nice and very understanding and accept the fact that they don’t know anything about it and they’re not going to ask, because they know it’s disrespectful. And then the other half are just —maddieWish that they were there.brookeJust wish they were there and are trying so hard to get attention from it, in any way possible.maddieThey post pictures of the building. [INTERPOSING VOICES] Like, you’ve never even —edenHave photoshoots.brookeAnd they think it’s funny.maddieYou’ve never even been in the building. How are you going to post a picture of it?jadeUnless their sibling was at open house, I don’t know.brookeBut they think it’s funny. And they’re dropping textbooks, popping things.maddieOh, my god.brookeLike, someone that has serious PTSD could be right next to you.clare toeniskoetterWait, so they are walking through the halls and making loud noises, dropping textbooks. [INTERPOSING VOICES]brookeThey do it in their classes all the time, for fun.jadeI was taking a math test — it’s a thing.clare toeniskoetterThat’s so cruel.maddieOne of them, after the pep rally, I was walking back to class to portables, and we were right in front of the freshman building. And one of them popped a water bottle right in back of me. Right in front of the freshman building.clare toeniskoetterSo it’s more than just one nasty kid. It’s a lot of them.maddieThey just don’t have — they’re not considerate. They don’t know what they’re doing.brookeThey don’t give empathy to the situation.maddieThey don’t think about it.brookeExactly. And it might be because they don’t really understand. But if you don’t understand, then just don’t do anything. Don’t try to be funny, because it’s not funny.clare toeniskoetterYeah. It’s so — hearing you as sophomores talk about the freshmen, like, there’s this dynamic in any high school experience of feeling like, now I’m older and I hate those freshmen. But of course, it’s completely different for you.brooke— this whole separation, this whole divide.edenThere’s a line.maddieI have no issue with them on any other problem, except for the shooting.brookeAnything else, I don’t even really care.clare toeniskoetterYeah. What do you think is the ideal? What, if you were a freshman this year, what do you think would be the best way?edenJust don’t talk about it.studentJust be respectful.brookeDon’t act like you know anything about it. Because you don’t. [INTERPOSING VOICES]edenDon’t bring it up. Ever.maddieDon’t talk about it like you know what we went through.brookeThey don’t know anything.maddieBecause I know that you were scared and you didn’t know what was going on.clare toeniskoetterBecause a lot of them were next door in the middle school and got evacuated. But they weren’t —edenIt was different.jadeIt was really scary for them. But for us, it’s terrifying.brookeIt’s just different.clare toeniskoetterYeah.brookeI heard it right in my ear, in the hallways. So don’t act like it’s the same.clare toeniskoetterDoes all of this, does it make you feel older?edenI feel like I’m, like, a 90-year-old woman.brookeI feel like we didn’t really — we kind of fast-tracked. [INTERPOSING VOICES]maddieYeah, telling stories about her life.jadeAnd I feel really bad for —brookeI feel bad celebrating my birthday sometimes.edenI feel bad getting my license. I feel bad —brookeWhen they can’t —clare toeniskoetterMilestones. Every milestone feels —edenIt’s really hard.brookeI just feel so guilty.jadeJust getting up every day. Sometimes.brookeLike, they’re supposed to be here. Like, that whole thing wasn’t supposed to happen.maddieYou gotta talk about it.brookeI kinda feel like our childhood got ruined.jadeIt did, yeah.brookeI feel like it’s not there anymore.maddieLike, our high school, everybody says high school is the best time of your life, along with college. But we don’t get that.edenBut it’s not because it’s consuming our lives.maddieYeah. It’s never going to be like that anymore. It’s never going to be like, oh, it’s high school.brookeLike, no cares in the world.edenWhen your parents are like, oh, when I was in high school, this. It’s like, when I was in high school, all I can think about would be the shooting.jadeYeah.edenIt’s hard to differentiate what’s from the shooting and what’s from regular teenage anxiety. Because everybody has anxiety. Everybody. So for me, it’s like, I’ll get those times where I’ll feel like there’s literally — I’m just like, I can’t, I can’t. And I don’t know if it’s from the shooting, and I don’t know what it’s from.brookeIt’s a combination of things, not just [INAUDIBLE] the shooting.edenThat sets the basis for it.maddieSometimes the stress of the shooting has a big impact on regular teenage stresses. So it’ll make your normal teenage stresses more stressful.edenEven more dramatic.clare toeniskoetterBecause you guys are all 15, about to turn 16. So what’s going on in your lives outside of this? You’re about to get driver’s licenses.jadeYeah, exactly.maddieSchool.clare toeniskoetterDating.maddieI mean, right now in life we’re worried about next year. Next year’s going to be our junior year, which is, like, the most important year.clare toeniskoetterCollege.jadeDefinitely, I’m thinking about that the most.maddieStarting to think about colleges, which is scary, but —edenSo scary.maddieSo scary.brookeAnd I’m really scared to apply to colleges, because I don’t want to be accepted just because I’m a Douglas kid. Like, I don’t want that to be the reason why —edenI don’t want that to be my —brookeI get above someone else.eden— the definition of who I am.brookeExactly. I don’t want to look good to your college just because I was in the shooting.edenI just feel like time’s going by so fast.jadeIt really is. I can’t believe it’s almost been a year.edenIt’s crazy.jadeAnd that’s what I’m scared of.brookeI feel like it was, like, yesterday.edenThat, to me, is crazy.jadeLike, I relive it every day, for me at least.maddieI think because we’ve just been living in it this whole year, it just hasn’t gone away. It’s not something that —jadeLike, it surrounds. When I look back on the person I was exactly a year ago from today, she would have not acted like this at all. She would have been a completely different person.clare toeniskoetterYou think you were fundamentally changed?jadeYeah, definitely.brookeYeah. I think everyone is. I don’t think anyone can mentally be the same after what we went through.edenIt’s a part of you.brookeExactly.jadeSometimes I’ll think about when I’m 20, I’ll think about, like, oh, that happened — what would that be? Seven years ago. Like, that’s scary.maddieYeah. I think about when —jadeIt’s been that long.maddie— we have kids, how are we going to send our kids to school?brookeIt’s so hard for me to want to have kids in a place like this.maddieHow are we going to have kids and send them to school like that?brookeI’ve wanted kids my whole life. But I don’t know if I want them anymore.edenIf my kid will have to go through what I went through, I’d just feel so bad.brookeIt makes me not want to have kids. And I’ve wanted kids my whole life.maddieObviously, in the very, very, very far future.brookeNo, yeah. Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah.maddieWe’re talking about kids in the way future.edenActually, six more months. [LAUGHTER] [MUSIC]maddieI always say this. I always say this. Everybody who goes through mass shootings don’t go to the site of the mass shooting every single day and see the building where it happened every single day. We do.brookeA part of me kind of wants to go in.maddieI want to go in so bad.edenI want to go in so bad. I still do.maddieI think we all agreed in 1216 —brookeIt would give us nice closure.maddie— that we want to go in. [INTERPOSING VOICES]edenLast year, we were saying we all — I still want to go in.jadeAt the same time, I don’t want to see that.brookeLike, I want to —maddieI just want to see how they left it.jadeYeah, that’s what I want to see. I want to grab my English binder. [LAUGHTER]edenThere’s just something so curious about how we went there every single day. I was in that building every single day.brookeI had, like, four classes in there.jadeI had two.edenIt’s so weird to me.clare toeniskoetterWhat do you think you would do if you could go in?jadeOh, I’d go in, just walk.maddieI would just walk. [INTERPOSING VOICES]clare toeniskoetterTogether?jadeThe first thing I’d do is go in our classroom.maddieI’ve had dreams about —edenMe, too.jadeI don’t want to see the blood stains.brookeI have it kind of engraved of a thought with just, like, Valentine’s stuff everywhere.maddieOr backpacks. Well, I guess we’re going to see it. We’re going to see it when the trial happens.clare toeniskoetterYou’ll be able to go in?maddieNo, we’re not going to be able to go in. But we’ll see pictures.clare toeniskoetterYou’ll see photos.brookeI still want to see it for myself.maddieI know. [INTERPOSING VOICES]brookeHas anyone had time travel dreams or anything like that?maddieWe sound like literal psychopaths right now. We sound like psychopaths.jadeWe sound insane.clare toeniskoetterTime travel dream?brookeBecause I — it’s a recurring nightmare dream I have. I don’t really have anything about going forward. But I always have this dream where I’m able to go back to that date, and I try to warn people. And I try to warn Alaina, because she was my closest friend in that class. And she won’t listen to me. No one will listen to me.edenI had that, too. And I remember I had a dream, and I showed Alyssa my tattoo, because I have a tattoo.clare toeniskoetterWhat’s your tattoo of?edenIt has the room number on it.clare toeniskoetterDo you all have them?brookeNo.edenAnd I remember I was, in my dream, I was showing her. I was showing her in my dream. And she was, like —maddieThree hearts for them?edenNot believing me. And I was like, look, I’m telling you, there was a shooting. Don’t go to class. And she went anyways.jadeI would have just, like, kidnapped her at the front, like, you’re coming with me.edenI didn’t know you got a tattoo.clare toeniskoetterCan you tell me what they both are?maddieYeah. So mine is, the top is the date in Roman numerals, 2-14-18. The second layer is the three hearts for Alex, Alyssa and Alaina. And the third layer is 1216, which is our classroom number.clare toeniskoetterAnd what’s yours?edenAnd then mine is, like, a flower, which is kind of, if you see, there’s leaves on it. And that represents the growth from what happened. And then there’s the room number, 1216, and then there’s three little flower petals things, for Alaina, Alex and Alyssa.maddieMakes me feel close to them. I love that.edenI like it. But some days, I’m like, I wish I didn’t have to get this tattoo. Like, I hate how it’s part of, it’s permanent. And so is the shooting. It’s permanent on you. [INTERPOSING VOICES]brookeThe thing is, I’m always going to think of it, and I want that there.maddieYeah, I think the significance of getting something permanent on you is that just like the tattoo, the shooting is going to be with you for the rest of your life.brookeFor the rest of your life. [MUSIC]edenFor, like, three months after the shooting, I would always be searching up videos of the shooting and watching them over and over.brookeSame, same, same.clare toeniskoetterWhy? [INTERPOSING VOICES]edenBecause I needed, I needed that closure. I needed to actually see that was real.brookeI think that’s why a lot of us want to go in the room. We just want closure. Because I have no closure on anything.edenAll we have is our memory. And that’s not as reliable, to me, as a picture. [INTERPOSING VOICES]brookeAnd that’s going to fade.clare toeniskoetterDo you think you’ll ever have closure?edenNo.brookeProbably not.edenMaybe.clare toeniskoetterHow could you have?maddieHopefully.edenThe building. The videos.brookeLike, I want to have closure. But I don’t know if it’s attainable.edenI think after the actual videos of it happening, I would love to see that.jadeI started —clare toeniskoetterAnd that exists, in some —edenI think it will.brookeThey exist.edenThey have videos.jadeI’ve seen a picture.maddieThe hallway.jadeBut that’s it.maddieWell, I watch everything that comes out. Everything that comes out, I watch. Every article that comes out about it, I watch. Because I like to know everything that happened. Even though I know, I just don’t — I’d just like to —edenThey don’t have the proof of it.maddieBecause then I don’t look like an idiot telling my story, like, oh, yeah.clare toeniskoetterIt’s validating.maddieYeah. [MUSIC]clare toeniskoetterWhat are you planning on doing this Thursday?maddieCemeteries. More cemeteries. Vigils. I’m going to two cemeteries.jadeAre you going to Alyssa’s?maddieI’m going to — is Alex buried there?edenYeah, they’re right next to — they’re right, literally so close to each other. I went to Alyssa’s, and I saw Max there. And I went to go see, and it was literally right next to it.maddieIs his headstone up?edenYeah.brookeI want to visit Alaina’s, but —maddieI haven’t seen since his.jadeWait, where’s Alaina’s?brookeI don’t know where Alaina’s is.maddieI’m going to Martin’s and I’m going to Luke’s, which are both in the same — [SIGH]clare toeniskoetterAnd you don’t have school on Thursday. Friday is optional?maddieOptional.jadeI mean, both of them is optional.maddieYeah.brookeThey’re both going to be there, but like —clare toeniskoetterYou’re able to go and do service projects. Is that right? Are any of you going to go into school on Thursday?maddieNo. I can’t. I couldn’t even stay for the rest of today.edenYeah, today was hard.maddieI had to leave after third.edenI left early and came late.jadeAre you going tomorrow?maddieNo. I can’t. I physically, like, starting on Monday, I walked into school and I couldn’t.jadeI feel like if I don’t, like, I don’t want to be at home thinking about it.edenYeah. I don’t want to be home by myself.jadeOh, yeah, I know.edenI don’t like that.maddieI’d rather be home than there.brookeThe thing is, I’ve already — I have so much makeup work.jadeI feel like I have to go to school. It’s so bad.brookeI have so much makeup work because I’ve gone early for so many days, because of everything just being too much. And I feel like I can’t miss any more school because the amount of things I have to make up is insane.maddieTomorrow is not going to be an academic day at all.brookeIt is.jadeYeah. I’m learning a lesson in math.brookeI have things planned in bio.jadeAnd I have homework over the weekend. And a test next week in there.brookeSame. [MUSIC]clare toeniskoetterWhat do you think that people get wrong about you? What do you think people should understand about you who were in the classroom?maddieSomething that I’ve always wished that the media knew is that — what we went through, other than the politics. Not everything’s about March for Our Lives. And whereas March for Our Lives is great, and the fact that they can make a change is amazing. But we have stories that are worth being told. And I think that —edenAnd are worth hearing.maddieAnd I think that the media is just so quick to politicize everything, because that’s what makes everything a story. But not everything’s political, and we’re actually going through something that’s real. And really bad.edenAnd it’s happening.maddieYeah, and it happened to us.brookeAnd it happened when we were, like, 14 or 15.edenThat’s what’s so amazing about what the March for Our Lives kids did. But now over time, it’s obviously getting less of a national discussion, less important in our conversations right now.jadeLess vital.edenWhich is upsetting.brookeI feel like another thing, too, is — especially with a bunch of news stations and stuff like that — because I feel like a lot of people forget. And I wish people knew that just because the cameras went away and people aren’t writing about it as much does not mean that the issue went away. Like, people are still depressed. People are still having panic attacks and anxiety attacks. And there are still people that can’t go throughout the day without breaking down because of this. And they didn’t just like, poof, when the camera stopped reporting them or their interview ended — nothing stopped.clare toeniskoetterWhat do you hope comes out of someone knowing that, of fully understanding your story of being in the room?maddieFor me, it’s more about memorializing them and remembering them. Because that’s what matters. To me, that’s what matters, is to keep —edenTo make sure their names aren’t forgotten.jadeTo keep them alive.maddieBecause they didn’t deserve to die. And they’re not here to share their stories.brookeBut we can do that for them. And I think that’s the only reason that —jadeIn a non-political way.brooke— exactly — is that we just want their name to be there forever. They didn’t go away. They’re going to be there with us in our memories as long as we live. And we, as the people who survived it, can bring their memory to life to other people and to show them how amazing they were. They didn’t meet them. But we hope that by telling you how smart Alaina was, by telling you how kind Alex was, by telling you how funny Alyssa was, that you can understand.clare toeniskoetterI think you guys have done a wonderful job honoring them.studentsThank you. Thank you all for talking to me. [MUSIC]maddieI want to take a picture of all of us. Like, a mirror selfie.edenOoh, right now?clare toeniskoetterI can take one of you guys, if you want.maddieNo, it’s O.K. It’s better like a mirror.edenFor Snapchat.jadeOr Instagram.brookeO.K., so there’s two options here with mirrors. [INTERPOSING VOICES]Listen and subscribe to our podcast from your mobile device: Via Apple Podcasts | Via RadioPublic | Via StitcherIt’s been a year since the shooting at Marjory Stoneman Douglas High School in Parkland. We went to Florida this week to check in on some of the students we met 12 months ago.On today’s episode:Clare Toeniskoetter, a producer for “The Daily,” spoke with four students who survived the shooting.Background coverage:“I feel broken, I feel defeated. Right now on my mind, it’s not going to be fine.” Three weeks after the shooting, a group of Stoneman Douglas High School students spoke to a Times reporter on “The Daily.” Listen here.In a series of interviews, nine members of the Stoneman Douglas community — students, parents, police, teachers — reflected on the past 12 months. Parkland students became leaders of the movement for gun control and traveled the country registering young people to vote. Here’s a look at the impact they made.Tune in, and tell us what you think. Email us at thedaily@nytimes.com. Follow Michael Barbaro on Twitter: @mikiebarb. And if you’re interested in advertising with “The Daily,” write to us at thedaily-ads@nytimes.com.AdvertisementFollow Us:Get the Upshot in your Inbox

      By MARGOT SANGER-KATZ and 
    
QUOCTRUNG BUI

MARCH 27, 2019

.229mm.45In Boston from 2010 to 2015, there were 221 gun homicides.Research suggests that one change could have lowered that number by 40 percent: smaller bullets.A study last year, published in JAMA Network Open, examined the type of weapon used in every fatal and nonfatal shooting in the city. It found that  —  regardless of the time of day, the number of wounds or the circumstances of the crime —  the size of the bullet affected which gunshot victims lived and which ones died. Effect on homicide rate if all wounds had been from guns with a ...At the center of the debate about gun control lies the question of whether the availability of deadly weapons increases the seriousness of crime. Critics of gun control contend it doesn’t. As the popular bumper sticker argues: “Guns don’t kill people. People kill people.” The study set out to test that slogan -- and found it wanting.“The type of weapon matters,” said Philip Cook, an emeritus professor of public policy at Duke University, and one of the study’s co-authors.If all the shooters in Boston had used the types of guns in circulation with the biggest bullets, the homicide rate could have been 43 percent higher, the researchers calculated recently, even with the same people committing exactly the same crimes.Criminal shootings in Boston, 2010-2014Over recent decades, the size of bullets fired by the typical handgun has increased. Changes in design have made it easier to fire big bullets from concealable weapons, and manufacturers have marketed more powerful guns as better tools for self-defense. In the 1970s and 1980s, the guns most commonly used in crime tended to be revolvers or small, inexpensive pistols that fired .22-caliber rounds, so-called for their 0.22-inch diameter.a .22-caliber round2 cm.1 cm.But regulations meant to reduce crimes committed with these cheap, disposable guns, sometimes called “Saturday night specials,” pushed them out of gun stores. And advances in gun technology caused a new generation of weapons to hit the market — and eventually the streets. The newer guns, which started to become common in the 1990s, were semi-automatic. They could fire multiple rounds more quickly, and tended to be able to store more bullets in their magazines, meaning they required less reloading in long shootouts.And instead of buying guns that fired smaller bullets, people started purchasing ones that fired rounds that were 9 millimeters wide, about 0.35 inches, then 0.40 and 0.45 inches.a 9mm-caliber round2 cm.1 cm.Guns that fire big bullets used to also be big. But improvements in technology have meant that large-caliber weapons are now available as pistols that can be more easily carried and hidden.These advances, intended for the legal self-defense market, have spread to the criminal one, too. Although data about the guns owned and used by criminals is imperfect, evidence suggests that criminals’ buying preferences are not substantially different from that of the general public. A recent study of guns used by criminal gangs, also in the Boston area, found that gang members paid the most for large-caliber semi-automatic pistols, which they often bought secondhand at prices much higher than those paid by legal purchasers in gun stores. Police seizures of guns in other cities, including Chicago, also show a growing share of large-caliber handguns.a .45-caliber round3 cm.2 cm.1 cm.“In general, the criminals who are using guns in crime do want the higher-caliber, more lethal weapons, and want the newest and sexiest,” said Roseanna Ander, the founding executive director of the Crime Lab at the University of Chicago. “But there is a big markup, and they sometimes can’t get them.”A foundational statistical study in 1972 looked at detailed crime records in Chicago and first documented a relationship between weapon type and outcome. Franklin Zimring, a professor of law at the University of California, Berkeley, said he had been surprised to see so much similarity in the circumstances between fatal and nonfatal shootings. What made the difference, he said, appeared to be some combination of luck, aim and the weapon involved.Mr. Zimring called that paper “The Medium Is the Message,” but said he had been urged to title it “The Bigger the Bullet, the Bigger the Hole.” In the decades since, little has been done to replicate its results. The police don’t always collect information about the caliber involved in shootings. Detailed data about all the particulars of nonfatal shootings is particularly rare.But when Anthony Braga, the director of the school of criminology and criminal justice at Northeastern University, and Mr. Cook learned that Boston’s Police Department was collecting information about caliber as part of an effort to improve its homicide clearance rate, they decided to retest that earlier thesis. It took five years of shootings for the researchers to collect enough data to draw firm conclusions.Bigger rounds can have their drawbacks for shooters, particularly when loaded into compact handguns. Because the bigger ammunition tends to fire with more explosive power, the .40- and .45-caliber handguns that some Boston criminals were using can have strong recoil that can make them hard to handle or to aim subsequent shots. The trade-off between caliber and aim is, in part, why the F.B.I. and many police departments carry 9-millimeter guns rather than larger alternatives. But accuracy seemed a less important consideration for the Boston criminals in the data the researchers examined. Unlike police shootings, most of the shootings in the sample involved a single bullet wound.“Their aim is terrible, fortunately,” Mr. Cook said. “A lot of these cases are drive-bys or cases where you just wouldn’t expect that there’s any sharpshooting going on.”If people are determined to kill someone, will they find a way? Critics of the study’s conclusion contend that the choice of gun itself can be an expression of a criminal’s intent.“As far as I know, everyone in the field believes bigger-caliber handguns are more lethal than smaller-caliber handguns — it's a nonissue," said Gary Kleck, a professor emeritus of criminology at Florida State University, in an email. But he said the study failed to take into consideration that a larger gun might signal a more determined killer. "The authors' implied claim that lethality of the shooter's intent has no effect on victim death is bizarre."There are no serious current proposals to regulate or limit the sale of handguns by caliber size. A recent anonymous survey of gun researchers by the nonpartisan RAND Corporation found that the field remains divided on the question of how much weapons matter in crimeIt’s true that the era of larger-caliber handguns has also been an era of declining violent crime. Homicides in most major American cities peaked in the early 1990s, just before larger-caliber pistols became common. The homicide rate has fallen nearly by half since then. But the research about weapon caliber suggests it could have dropped by even more.AdvertisementSupported byBy Tiffany HsuDick’s Sporting Goods, one of the largest firearms retailers in the United States, is moving further away from selling guns, even as the shift takes a toll on its earnings.On Tuesday, Dick’s said that it would strip firearms and other hunting products from 125 of its stores and replace the merchandise with batting cages, ski apparel and other sports gear. If the switch is successful, as it was at 10 stores where it was tested starting in the fall, it will be expanded, the company said.The latest move to scale back gun sales is becoming a familiar one for the company and its chief executive, Edward Stack.Last year, after 17 people were killed in a shooting in Parkland, Fla., Mr. Stack learned that the suspect, Nikolas Cruz, once bought a gun from Dick’s. That firearm was not used in the attack, but Mr. Stack realized it could have been.Shaken by the link, Mr. Stack, a longtime gun owner, introduced measures that made it harder to buy firearms at Dick’s stores, and he pressed Congress to adopt gun-safety measures. He aligned himself with gun-control activists; was shunned by gun sellers, buyers and firearms industry employees; and became one of the most cited names in a gun debate increasingly crowded with corporate voices.He appeared at conferences with Laurence D. Fink, the chief executive of BlackRock; Mark Bertolini, a former chief executive of Aetna; and other executives with strong opinions on gun control. In the process, Mr. Stack became a model for business leaders wading into contentious social issues.But  his outspoken approach may have put pressure on his company, which sells much more than guns. In announcing its earnings on Tuesday, Dick’s said adjusted same-store sales fell 3.1 percent in the 12 months that ended Feb. 2 from the comparable period a year earlier.In the fourth quarter, which included the holiday shopping season, adjusted same-store sales were down 2.2 percent. Net income for the quarter fell to $102.6 million, or $1.07 a share, from $116 million, or $1.11 a share in the year-earlier period.Public reaction to the policies Dick’s introduced after the Parkland shooting was a “meaningful driver” in the declines, Mr. Stack said in a conference call with analysts on Tuesday. Intensifying competition from Amazon was another, analysts said.The company, which is based in the Pittsburgh area, said it expected its sales for this year to range from flat to a 2 percent increase.In trading on Tuesday, Dick’s shares fell 11 percent from the previous close. But the stock, adjusted for dividends, is up more than 10 percent since Mr. Stack decided to remove AR-15-style and other semiautomatic rifles from the company’s Field & Stream stores soon after the Parkland shooting. Stores operating under the Dick’s logo had already stopped selling such weapons after the 2012 shooting at Sandy Hook Elementary School in Newtown, Conn., in which 26 people, including 20 children, were killed.Both chains stopped selling guns and ammunition to customers younger than 21 last year. The company includes 729 Dick’s Stores, 94 Golf Galaxy stores and 35 Field & Stream stores.Mr. Stack, whose father started Dick’s in 1948, said in a recent interview that the company had “been in the gun business basically since inception.” Gun demand broadly, he said, is “under pressure” and is “going to continue to be under pressure.”Firearm sales, according to an estimate from the Small Arms Analytics & Forecasting research firm, slumped 12.4 percent in February from a year earlier, to 1.1 million units.The drop “certainly appears to validate the ongoing challenging market conditions,” James Debney, the chief executive of American Outdoor Brands, said this month. The company, which owns the Smith & Wesson firearms brand, announced a $5.7 million loss in its third quarter, causing its stock to plunge.Interest in hunting has been on a steady decline in the United States for decades. Mr. Stack said in the interview that the hunting category had “deteriorated” for Dick’s in recent years.In the 10 stores where hunting products were not selling well and were replaced with other merchandise, sales improved during the test, Mr. Stack said on the call on Tuesday. If the expanded trial “goes as well as expected, we’d probably take another batch of stores next year,” he said.Mr. Stack said the shift was meant to make Dick’s stores more “productive.” But Camilla Yanushevsky, an analyst with the research firm CFRA, said that phasing out hunting products was “largely a sign of solidarity with Parkland victims, as well as a form of social activism.”The Parkland shooting inspired other companies to embrace gun safety activism.Delta Air Lines, MetLife and  others cut ties with the National Rifle Association after the attack. Citigroup and Bank of America placed restrictions on gun industry clients. In November, a group of pension funds and other investors circulated a list of guidelines for gun companies with the goal of improving transparency and safety.“It is up to the private sector to continue this conversation,” Mr. Stack said in the interview, “however slowly it moves.”But gun rights advocates have resisted corporate involvement in their cause.Months ago, American Outdoor Brands shareholders unexpectedly won a vote that asked the company to address the risks associated with its products and gun violence. Last month, the company wrote in response that its “reputation as a strong defender of the Second Amendment is not worth risking for a vague goal of improving the company’s reputation among noncustomers or special interest groups with an anti-Second Amendment agenda.”Some of Dick’s 45,000 employees felt the same about Mr. Stack’s decision to restrict gun sales, with 62 resigning over the last year, he said. The National Shooting Sports Foundation voted to expel Dick’s from its membership. Manufacturers like O. F. Mossberg & Sons stopped selling to the chain, although Mr. Stack said Dick’s still had access to Mossberg products through distributors.Mr. Stack also said he had received some threats and had increased security measures meant to protect him and the company. But he said he had no plans to curb his gun-safety efforts.He recently signed an open letter supporting universal background-check legislation that last month became the first major gun control measure in decades to pass the House. Along with executives from Levi Strauss and RXR Realty, he became one of the first members of a business council organized by Everytown for Gun Safety, a major gun safety advocacy group. He is looking into smart gun technology now being developed, calling it “helpful from a gun violence standpoint.”“People in the gun business are not terribly happy with us,” he said. “They said we were toxic, which is fine with us; we’re not going to change the way we’re going.”Follow Tiffany Hsu on Twitter: @tiffkhsu.AdvertisementSupported byGood Thursday. (Want this by email? Sign up here.)Guns Down America, a gun-control advocacy group, has graded 15 banks based on their support for the gun industry, Tiffany Hsu of the NYT reports. Most received dismal appraisals.• “Six of the banks, including JPMorgan Chase and Wells Fargo, received failing grades. Citigroup earned the highest one, a B.”• The group used a 100-point scale that weighed factors like “a bank’s loans to and investments in gun makers” and “discounts and deals it offers to N.R.A. members.”• Citi got an 84. JPMorgan got a 48. BB&T, the lowest-ranking bank on the list, got a 20, in part for loans and financing that it arranged for gun makers like Smith & Wesson.• “We’re not interested in shaming banks or running a campaign focused on how evil they are,” Igor Volsky, the group’s executive director, told Ms. Hsu. “Our end goal is to change the way banks make decisions when doing business with the gun industry.”• Ms. Hsu writes that “several banks contacted for comment said that they had not been consulted and that the group had relied on arbitrary metrics.”Carlos Ghosn was arrested for a fourth time today, as prosecutors hit him with new charges of using company funds for personal ends. The former Nissan chairman claims that it’s part of an effort to silence him.This time, he was accused of using a Nissan subsidiary in Oman to send millions of dollars of payments to one of the carmaker’s foreign business partners, which then passed it on to a company Mr. Ghosn controlled.Mr. Ghosn did this three times between 2015 and 2018, resulting in $5 million in losses to Nissan, according to prosecutors.He may be held in solitary confinement for at least 20 days, the FT reports, citing unnamed people close to his family. It adds that it is highly unusual in the Japanese legal system for someone released on bail to be rearrested.Mr. Ghosn blamed “some individuals at Nissan” for his “outrageous and arbitrary arrest,” saying they were attempting “to silence me by misleading the prosecutors.” He had tweeted yesterday that he planned to hold a news conference next Thursday to tell “the truth about what’s going on.”That tweet and arrest raise an interesting question: Did he violate the terms of his bail, which restrict his internet access?Cybersecurity researchers have found data about hundreds of millions of Facebook users stored publicly by a third party on Amazon’s cloud servers, according to Bloomberg.• “In one instance, Mexico City-based digital platform Cultura Colectiva openly stored 540 million records on Facebook users, including identification numbers, comments, reactions and account names. The records were accessible and downloadable for anyone who could find them online.”• “In the Cultura Colectiva dataset, which totaled 146 gigabytes, it was difficult for researchers to know how many unique Facebook users were affected.”• The researchers also “ had trouble working to get the database closed.”• “A Facebook spokesperson said that the company’s policies prohibit storing Facebook information in a public database. Once it was alerted to the issue, Facebook worked with Amazon to take down the databases.”It has been over a year since the Cambridge Analytica scandal showed how widely Facebook had shared user data with third-party app developers. The social network began to audit that data-sharing last year, but the research report shows the struggle the company still faces.More: Facebook is paying the British newspaper The Telegraph to publish sponsored articles that play down concerns about its practices. New research suggests that its algorithms target ads by race and gender even when advertisers request a broad audience. And have Mark Zuckerberg’s tech regulation proposals been treated unfairly?President Trump is expected to meet China’s trade envoy, Liu He, in Washington later today. That could be a sign of progress on some of the sticking points surrounding a potential deal, according to Bob Davis of the WSJ.The U.S. and China have been at odds over tariffs imposed on $250 billion of Chinese goods. Washington sees them as a way to ensure that China sticks to the deal; Beijing wants them removed as soon as it’s signed. China has few other hard demands, and U.S. businesses have urged the Trump administration to remove the tariffs.There could be workarounds. The U.S. trade representative, Robert Lighthizer, has “been using the tariff issue to push for another U.S. priority — that China agree to a no-retaliation clause in a trade deal,” Mr. Davis reports. The plan, which could let the U.S. unilaterally impose levies on Chinese goods if China does not comply, could “help him persuade Mr. Trump to approve the agreement and lift a substantial amount of tariffs.”“Mr. Trump is looking to announce on Thursday the date of a summit with Mr. Xi,” an unnamed Trump administration official told Mr. Davis. “That’s a big signal the two sides are on the cusp of a deal, trade experts say, and a resolution of the tariff issue.”But “the situation is fluid, and plans could change,” the official added.Senator Ron Wyden, the top Democrat on the Senate’s tax-writing committee, has an idea that could radically change how America taxes the 1 percent, according to the WSJ.Mr. Wyden proposed taxing gains in asset values annually, at the same rate as other income. Gains are currently taxed only when investors sell an asset, and at a top rate of 23.8 percent, rather than the 37 percent for ordinary income.The senator said his plan would “eliminate serious loopholes that allow some to pay a lower rate than wage earners, to delay their taxes indefinitely, and in some cases, to avoid paying tax at all.”Challenges to the plan include how to value gains in complex assets, how to handle declines in value, and how to apply it to illiquid holdings like real estate.The proposal “is a breathtakingly terrible idea,” Sen. Pat Toomey, Republican of Pennsylvania, told the WSJ.President Trump’s aversion to regulation and his go-it-alone nationalism are wavering in the face of technology questions, Steve Lohr of the NYT reports.• “In September, the Trump administration abandoned its hands-off approach and began working closely with the 36-nation Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development to create international guidelines for the design and use of artificial intelligence.”• “The administration has also started to discuss a new law to protect privacy in the digital age, seeking consensus domestically and common ground internationally. It has fielded more than 200 public-comment filings from advocacy groups, corporations and individuals.”The administration has “moved from indifference to engagement,” Julie Brill, a former commissioner at the Federal Trade Commission who now helps oversee regulatory affairs for Microsoft, told Mr. Lohr.“The shift is a pragmatic recognition that regulations that will affect the nation’s tech industry and its citizens are coming, and that if federal officials want a say in them, they must participate,” Mr. Lohr writes.The race to give citizens superfast wireless data networks reached a conclusion yesterday. But there’s no clear consensus on which city is the world’s first to enjoy 5G, the WSJ reports.• “Verizon launched 5G wireless service in parts of Chicago and Minneapolis on Wednesday, a week ahead of its planned start date, while carriers in South Korea deployed their service in the Seoul metropolitan area the same day.”• “It is unclear which country struck first. South Korea’s large carriers, which had eyed a Friday start, hustled to switch on 5G services at 11 p.m. local time. Both SK Telecom Co. and KT Corp., the two largest operators, claimed to have the world’s first 5G smartphone subscribers. Verizon said its customers in those two cities were the first.”The development of 5G has become politically charged. America and China, in particular, see it as a means of asserting technological prowess. And the battle has entangled the Chinese telecom company Huawei, with America and others declaring its 5G hardware a risk to national security.Expect to hear more about the race.Condй Nast has hired Roger Lynch, the former chief executive of Pandora, as its new C.E.O.PG&E confirmed that it has appointed 10 new directors, including Nora Mead Brownell, a former commissioner of the Federal Energy Regulation Commission, and Jeffrey Bleich, a partner at the law firm Dentons.Zeina Bain, one of the Carlyle Group’s most senior female deal makers, has left for a competitor, ICG.Apple promoted its M.&A. chief, Adrian Perica, by having him report directly to Tim Cook instead of the company’s C.F.O.Deals• The radio giant iHeartMedia filed to go public yesterday, though it hasn’t decided between an I.P.O. and a Spotify-like direct share listing. (NYT)• Nearly 20 percent of Lyft’s shares have been lent to short-sellers as part of bets they’ll fall in price. It’s now the most expensive American stock to short. (DealBook, Business Insider)• SoftBank is reportedly in talks to raise $15 billion more for its Vision Fund. (Bloomberg)• The consulting firm Accenture agreed to buy Droga5, one of the big independent advertising agencies. (NYT)Politics and policy• The arrest of a Chinese national carrying malware at Mar-a-Lago shows how hard it is for a presidential home to double as a moneymaking business. (WaPo)• The chairman of the House Ways and Means Committee formally requested six years of President Trump’s tax returns, while the House Intelligence Committee has asked for documents related to his inauguration. (NYT)• Senate Republicans resorted to the “nuclear option” of limiting debate on presidential nominations for federal courts and administrative posts to speed up confirmation of Mr. Trump’s picks. (NYT)• Some of Robert Mueller’s investigators have told associates that Attorney General William Barr’s summary of their findings underplayed troubling conclusions about President Trump. (NYT)Boeing• Ethiopian investigators said that the pilots of the Ethiopian Airlines flight that crashed followed proper guidance. (NYT)• Some pilots said that Boeing should have provided more instructions for disabling the anti-stall software suspected in the two crashes. (WSJ)• The family of Ralph Nader’s niece, who was killed in the Ethiopian Airlines crash, plans to sue Boeing. (NYT)• Boeing hasn’t halted 737 Max production despite the global grounding of the Max 8 model. (Bloomberg)Brexit• Prime Minister Theresa May and the opposition leader, Jeremy Corbyn, have begun talks to devise a Brexit deal that could garner cross-party support. (NYT)• Parliament passed a bill to force Mrs. May to seek a further delay to the process and avoid a no-deal Brexit. (FT)Tech• Tesla delivered 63,000 vehicles in the first quarter — fewer than expected and down 31 percent from the fourth quarter of 2018. (NYT)• A.I. experts have called on Amazon to stop selling its facial-recognition technology to law enforcement because it’s biased against women and people of color. (NYT)• Australia passed a law threatening huge fines for social media companies that fail to take down “abhorrent violent material” rapidly. (NYT)• MIT is cutting ties with the Chinese tech giants Huawei and ZTE over security risks. (FT)• Google will now require suppliers to provide their workers with benefits, including parental leave and minimum wages. (Wired)Best of the rest• Has the yield curve predicted the next recession — or are its warnings being overplayed? (FT)• Six women have sued Jones Day, one of the world’s largest law firms, for pregnancy and gender discrimination. (NYT)• A report by BlackRock says that investors underestimate extreme weather risks. (FT)• China’s stimulus plan might be working. (FT)• Much of the U.S. is experiencing a Japan-style decline in working-age residents. (Upshot)AdvertisementSupported byOur columnist answers your questions. By Michelle GoldbergOpinion ColumnistAdvertisementSupported byBy Kate TaylorPeople on opposite sides of the debate about guns apparently can’t agree on anything these days — not even the meaning of a string of pearls.On Tuesday, liberal activists expressed outrage at a group of male New Hampshire legislators who wore pearl necklaces at a committee hearing. Shannon Watts, the founder of a gun control group, Moms Demand Action for Gun Sense in America, posted an image of the lawmakers, all Republicans, on Twitter and accused them of mocking her group’s volunteers and others who were testifying.Male New Hampshire lawmakers on the hearing committee wearing pearls to mock @MomsDemand volunteers and gun safety advocates. #NHPolitics pic.twitter.com/rc1S3Bj9lGThe intended message of the pearls wasn’t entirely clear, though one interpretation was that the lawmakers were trying to paint members of the group as “pearl clutchers” — suggesting that they were being overly sensitive. People responding to the tweet attacked the men pictured, calling them bullies and their behavior malicious and cruel.Two Democratic presidential hopefuls, Senators Cory Booker and Kamala Harris, weighed in on Twitter in support of Moms Demand Action, which is an arm of Everytown For Gun Safety, the gun control group financed by Michael Bloomberg. “These moms are fighting to confront gun violence and protect our children,” Ms. Harris said. “They don’t deserve to be mocked.”But a different narrative soon emerged: Kimberly Morin, the president of a gun rights group that also attended the hearing, told The New Hampshire Union Leader that her group had distributed the pearls. The hearing was over a proposed “red flag” bill, which would allow courts to temporarily take away guns from people found to be an immediate risk to themselves or others.In an interview on Wednesday, Ms. Morin said the pearls were not meant to mock anyone, but had for years been a symbol for her group, the Women’s Defense League of New Hampshire, which offers firearms training to women as well as advocating gun rights.“She’s lying,” Ms. Morin said of Ms. Watts, the founder of Moms Demand Action. “That’s my comment — she’s lying.”For her part, Ms. Watts said Ms. Morin’s group was backing away from the necklaces’ original intent. “It started out meant to mock Moms Demand Action volunteers,” she insisted.Ms. Morin traced the origin of the symbolic pearls to 2015. After a hearing that year on a bill to allow people to carry concealed guns without a permit, an anonymous Moms Demand Action volunteer was quoted as saying that many potential opponents of the bill didn’t testify because they were intimidated, Ms. Morin said.“People really don’t like to come and stand in front of a ‘firing squad’ — a group of people with guns,” the volunteer told WMUR, a local television station.Ms. Morin said her group found the statement absurd. That day, some in her group were dressed in business suits — and as it happened, pearls — hardly the attire of a “firing squad.” It was that sequence of events that led the group to make pearls their signature, she said. (The bill was ultimately signed by Gov. Chris Sununu in 2017 at a ceremony rife with pearl necklaces.)New Hampshire has among the least restrictive gun laws in the country, and support for gun rights is strong. Democrats took control of both chambers of the legislature in November and are now pushing a package of bills aimed at setting limits on guns, including bills requiring background checks for commercial gun purchases, creating a waiting period between the purchase and delivery of a gun, and allowing school districts to create gun-free zones.The bills face considerable odds, given that Mr. Sununu, a Republican, has expressed opposition to any changes to the state’s gun laws, a position his spokesman reiterated on Wednesday.AdvertisementSupported byBy Catie EdmondsonWASHINGTON — The House this week is set to pass the first major gun control legislation in over two decades, with Democratic lawmakers expected to approve two measures strengthening background checks for all firearms sales.The last time the House put high-profile legislation expanding gun control laws to a vote was in 1994, when it passed the Federal Assault Weapons Ban and made it illegal to manufacture a number of semiautomatic weapons for civilian use. That legislation expired after a decade and was not renewed by a Republican-controlled Congress.But riding a new wave of urgency after a series of mass shootings — and the activism inspired by the school massacre in Parkland, Fla., last February in which 17 students and teachers were killed — House Democrats have pledged to take meaningful action on the issue, beginning with the twin bills.Here’s what you need to know about the measures and their odds in the Senate.The Bipartisan Background Checks Act, which the House will take up on Wednesday, requires universal background checks, closing a loophole for buyers at gun shows and online. The legislation, sponsored by Representative Mike Thompson, Democrat of California and the chairman of the House Gun Violence Prevention Task Force, also prohibits firearms transfers by a person who is not a licensed dealer. There are a number of exceptions, though, such as a family member giving a firearm as a gift, or lending a gun to someone in imminent danger.The second piece of legislation, the Enhanced Background Checks Act, will be voted on Thursday. Sponsored by Representative James E. Clyburn of South Carolina, the majority whip, the bill seeks to extend the initial background check review period to 10 days from three.Under federal law, the F.B.I. has three business days to perform its review and determine whether there is sufficient evidence to deny a purchase. If it is unable to do so, on the fourth day, the customer can return to the dealer and buy a gun. That loophole allowed Dylann S. Roof, the man who killed nine people at a historically black church in Charleston, S.C., in 2015, to purchase a .45-caliber handgun even though he had previously admitted to drug possession, which should have barred him from legally obtaining the weapon.A vast majority of guns used in 19 recent mass shootings — including those in Newtown, Conn.; San Bernardino, Calif.; and Las Vegas — were bought legally and after the gunman passed a federal background check. At least nine attackers had criminal histories or documented mental health problems that did not prevent them from obtaining their weapons.“The new gun control restrictions currently being considered by the Democratic majority in H.R. 8 would not have prevented my shooting,” Representative Steve Scalise of Louisiana, the Republican whip, said of the Bipartisan Background Checks Act. Mr. Scalise was gravely wounded in 2017 when a gunman fired on members of the Republican congressional baseball team while they were practicing in Virginia.But gun control advocates have praised the measures as a meaningful step toward change, and described the legislation as a necessary foundation for future work. Last year, the existing background check system identified and denied 88,000 gun sales to prohibited buyers including criminals and domestic abusers, according to Mr. Thompson’s office — but those same people are currently able to make purchases at gun shows or online.“We have fairly weak gun laws and we have loopholes that make it easy to have the levels of gun violence that we have right now, and we certainly have to do more to address it,” said Robin Lloyd, the managing director of the Giffords Law Center to Prevent Gun Violence. “But it is a critical first step.”The bills introduced by House Democrats closely mirror the last major attempt in the Senate to pass a gun control measure. Efforts led by Senator Patrick J. Toomey, Republican of Pennsylvania, and Senator Joe Manchin III, Democrat of West Virginia, to require background checks at gun shows and online failed in the Democratic-led Senate in 2013 and again in the Republican-led Senate in 2015.Otherwise, in the last two decades, most firearms legislation taken up by Congress has aimed to relax gun laws, such as attempts in the House and Senate to pass a concealed-carry reciprocity law allowing a person permitted to carry a concealed weapon in one state to carry it in every state.AdvertisementSupported byBy Catie EdmondsonWASHINGTON — The House voted on Wednesday to require background checks for all gun purchasers, including those at gun shows and on the internet — the first significant gun control bill to clear the chamber in a quarter of a century.The 240-to-190 vote is the first of two gun control measures expected to be put to House lawmakers this week, a turning point in gun legislation after 25 years when the National Rifle Association dominated the chamber. Last year’s massacre at Marjory Stoneman Douglas High School in Parkland, Fla., prompted a wave of student-led activism that pressed Democrats to unite around gun control, and the activists cheered when the measure cleared the 218-vote threshold for passage.The Democratic victory was tempered, however, after Republicans prevailed in adding a provision that would require the F.B.I. to alert Immigration and Customs Enforcement if an undocumented immigrant tried to obtain a firearm. Twenty-six Democrats, primarily from moderate or Republican-leaning districts, broke party lines to support the measure.But Speaker Nancy Pelosi of California and other Democrats insisted that would ultimately have little import.“Finally, we have done more than thoughts and prayers. Finally, we have taken a vote to expand background checks and help save lives,” said Representative Mike Thompson, Democrat of California, who leads the congressional Gun Violence Prevention Task Force.“For six long years, we worked on this issue, and the previous majority would not even let us have a hearing, let alone a vote to expand background checks,” Mr. Thompson said. “Today is a new day, and the show of support on both sides of the aisle for this important legislation is humbling.”More than 100 student activists, gun violence survivors and advocates — clad in a sea of orange scarves, ties and blazers to denote their support for the legislation — looked on from the House gallery as lawmakers advanced Mr. Thompson’s legislation, the Bipartisan Background Checks Act. It seeks to close loopholes that allow individuals to buy firearms on the internet or at gun shows without having to pass a background check.“We’ve been working toward this legislation for over a year now,” said Laura Kirk, 18, and a founder of a Students Demand Action high school chapter in Virginia. “It’s incredible to see our work translate into tangible results.”The Democrat-led House is expected to pass legislation on Thursday that would extend the amount of time the F.B.I. has to conduct background checks of gun purchasers, to 10 business days from three. It is an attempt to close the so-called Charleston loophole, which allowed Dylann Roof, the white supremacist who killed nine people in 2015 at a historically black church in Charleston, S.C., to buy a handgun even though he should have been barred from purchasing the weapon.It is “unlikely” that either measure will be taken up in the Republican-controlled Senate, Senator John Thune of South Dakota, the No. 3 Republican, said on Tuesday. House Republicans have flatly condemned both pieces of legislation, arguing the measures would be both ineffective and infringe on law-abiding citizens’ rights.The House bill that was approved on Wednesday “is taking the fears and concerns of a nation over gun violence and perpetrating a fraud on them,” said Representative Doug Collins of Georgia, the top Republican on the Judiciary Committee. “The reality is nothing in this bill would have stopped Parkland, or stopped any of the other violence we have seen.”Gunmen at the center of a number of high-profile mass shootings passed background checks and legally purchased the firearms they used. But gun control activists have praised both background check measures as a critical first step in a broader drive to reduce gun violence.“America’s current background check system is like having two types of security lines at the airport: one for people who are willing to be screened, and one you can waltz right through carrying whatever you want,” said John Feinblatt, the president of Everytown for Gun Safety. “We applaud the House for moving so quickly.”Once divided on the issue, House Democrats returned to the majority, promising meaningful action on gun control, with aid from advocacy groups backing candidates who made the issue central to their campaigns. Michael Bloomberg, the former mayor of New York, spent around $100 million in the midterms last year to elect gun control supporters, according to Everytown.The group will continue its push this week with $400,000 in digital ads urging lawmakers to support the legislation as it tries to break through the Senate.One of the new freshman Democrats supported by Mr. Bloomberg, Representative Lucy McBath of Georgia, had a 17-year-old son, Jordan, killed by gun violence.“Turning her grief and her tragedy into action and courage, to run for Congress, to stand on this floor and share her personal story with us — that takes real courage,” Ms. Pelosi said from the House floor, adding that the statistics of gun violence victims “spell out the story, but it is the human, personal stories that change minds.”Wednesday’s vote, Ms. Pelosi said, sends “a clear message to the families of those who have lost their loved ones to gun violence, that we have crossed a threshold here today to reduce gun violence in our country.”The Republican measure attached to the bill would present a problem if a version of the gun bill cleared the Senate. The measure has angered liberals in the House, who would like to see it removed in House-Senate negotiations.AdvertisementSupported byBy Catie EdmondsonWASHINGTON — The House voted Thursday to extend the time allotted for the F.B.I. to conduct background checks for gun purchasers flagged by the national instant check system, the second major gun control bill to clear the chamber this week after two decades of inaction.Democratic leaders also succeeded in quelling a small rebellion among freshman Democrats from Republican-leaning districts, persuading them to oppose a politically freighted Republican procedural motion after they backed a similar motion on Wednesday.The 228-to-198 vote aims to extend the background check review period for gun purchasers to 10 days. Currently, the F.B.I. must perform its review and determine whether there is sufficient evidence to deny a purchase in three business days. If it cannot complete the review within that time, a buyer may return to the dealer on the fourth day to purchase a firearm.That provision in current law allowed Dylann S. Roof to purchase a handgun and kill nine people at a historic black church in Charleston, S.C., in 2015, even though he should have been denied his firearm.“Let’s give the F.B.I., the authorities, enough time to do their job and save lives,” Representative James E. Clyburn of South Carolina, the majority whip and the bill’s sponsor, implored his colleagues from the House floor.Both gun control bills that cleared the House this week face dim prospects in the Senate, but they were cause for celebration for the gun-control activists that mobilized last year after a series of horrific mass shootings.While Thursday’s bill was expected to easily clear the Democrat-controlled chamber, a dose of drama was added after House Republicans staged a successful ambush during the vote on the first gun control measure on Wednesday.In an attempt to divide Democrats and draw out vulnerable swing-district members, Republicans offered a provision that would require the F.B.I. to alert Immigration and Customs Enforcement if an undocumented immigrant tried to obtain a firearm. Twenty-six Democrats broke party lines to support the measure, catching Democratic leadership caught off guard.House Republicans tried a repeat ambush on Thursday, surprising Democrats with a last-minute motion to exempt victims of domestic abuse from the new 10-day waiting period. This time, following strict marching orders from Speaker Nancy Pelosi, the motion failed, with only two Democrats, Representatives Jeff Van Drew of New Jersey and Collin C. Peterson of Minnesota, voting for the measure.“Vote no, just vote no, because the fact is a vote yes is to give leverage to the other side and surrender leverage on the floor of the House,” Ms. Pelosi told reporters on Thursday.At a meeting of House Democrats before the vote, Representative Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez of New York implored moderates to vote against the Republican-led motions and, in an implicit threat, added that she would make it clear to liberal activists which members supported the Republican measures, according to officials in the room.But some moderate freshmen, including Representative Xochitl Torres Small of New Mexico, stood up and explained how difficult the votes have been for them.House Republicans have sought to weaponize the procedural motion, using politically fraught measures to test the new Democrats’ resolve. The measures rarely hold the force of law, but a no vote even on a procedural motion could show up in a 30-second attack ad next year. Republicans succeeded in attaching a resolution condemning anti-Semitism and the boycott-Israel movement to a bill designed to halt American aid to Saudi Arabia’s war in Yemen after even Democratic leaders gave up on opposing it.“All they want to do is feed red meat to their base,” Representative Veronica Escobar, Democrat of Texas, said of House Republicans. “I’m hoping that colleagues of mine will see it that way and understand that these procedural motions — even the best-worded procedural motion — has not had the chance to go through the process” of committee consideration.Amid concern that some Democrats will continue to break away on tough votes, some House leaders are weighing revising the rules to require Republicans to give them more notice on the content of procedural motions.Representative Joe Cunningham, Democrat of South Carolina, who has voted for Republican-backed motions, played down their importance on Thursday.“These little motions and minor bills should not take attention away from the fact that progress is being made to keep people safe,” said Mr. Cunningham, one of the co-sponsors of Mr. Clyburn’s gun control bill.Ms. Pelosi signaled that she was not keen to change the rules, but added that it could be a topic for consideration by a select committee studying potential changes to “modernize” the House.“I am a big believer in respecting the whole House and the rights of the minority to have their say,” Ms. Pelosi told reporters.The “Charleston loophole” bill did show some of the old divisions that have plagued Democrats in the past over gun control. Seven Democrats voted no, including freshmen Anthony Brindisi of New York, Jared Golden of Maine, Kendra Horn of Oklahoma, Ben McAdams of Utah and Ms. Torres Small of New Mexico, all of whom won Republican districts in November.Only three Republicans voted yes.AdvertisementSupported byBy Tiffany HsuGun control activists have spent years trying to limit the number of assault-style firearms available to civilians: holding rallies, drafting proposed laws and backing campaigns by shareholders of publicly traded gun makers.Now, one advocacy group is focusing on a different pressure point: the consumer banks that provide loans and other financial support to the gun industry.The group, Guns Down America, which formed in 2016 after a mass shooting in Orlando, Fla., has created a ranking system that gives 15 banks letter grades based primarily on their ties to firearms makers and trade groups like the National Rifle Association.Six of the banks, including JPMorgan Chase and Wells Fargo, received failing grades. Citigroup earned the highest one, a B.Igor Volsky, Guns Down America’s founder and executive director, said he hoped the grading system would compel banks to be more publicly supportive of gun control measures, in the same way that many companies have taken positions on gay rights, immigration and other social issues.Part of the mission, he added, is stopping “the Wild Wild West of how gun manufacturers both produce military-style weapons and also how they can market those firearms.”“We’re not interested in shaming banks or running a campaign focused on how evil they are,” Mr. Volsky said. “Our end goal is to change the way banks make decisions when doing business with the gun industry.”The group used a 100-point scale that applied different weights to factors like a bank’s loans to and investments in gun makers; its public statements about gun safety; its support for lawmakers backed by the N.R.A.; and the discounts and deals it offers to N.R.A. members.The basis for the grades was publicly available information gathered from media reports, regulatory documents, campaign finance filings and other sources. Any undisclosed updates to gun-related deals, legal complications that might affect those arrangements and internal discussions were not reflected.Guns Down America said it had shared its methodology and individual grades with all 15 banks and was involved in continuing talks with some of them, but several banks contacted for comment said that they had not been consulted and that the group had relied on arbitrary metrics.In the last year, gun safety groups have begun looking more closely at the firearms industry’s corporate ties, with the scrutiny leading some businesses to make changes.After a mass shooting in Parkland, Fla., Delta Air Lines, Hertz and several other companies broke with the N.R.A., and retailers like Dick’s Sporting Goods made some guns harder to buy. Influential Wall Street figures like Laurence D. Fink, the chief executive of BlackRock, publicly embraced gun safety efforts.In March, estimated firearm sales in the United States slipped 12.6 percent from a year earlier, to nearly 1.4 million units, according to the research firm Small Arms Analytics & Forecasting.The financial industry’s connections to gun makers have drawn attention before. In December, The New York Times reported that many of the mass shootings in the last decade had been financed with credit cards.[Read out how banks unwittingly provide financing for mass shootings.]Some banks have already started to revise their policies and practices on firearms. Citigroup, which earned a score of 84 from Guns Down America, said in March 2018 that it would work only with clients that agreed to certain restrictions on firearm sales.A short time later, Bank of America said it would stop lending to companies that made military-inspired firearms for civilian use. It was subsequently criticized for its commitment to contribute $43.2 million in bankruptcy financing for Remington.Bank of America, which did not respond to a request for comment, got a C from Guns Down America.The six banks that received failing grades all had more than $200 million in recent financial arrangements with gun companies, according to Guns Down America.The group gave JPMorgan Chase a 48, finding that it had contributed $21,000 to politicians strongly supported by the N.R.A., and had a $273 million financing arrangement with Vista Outdoor. Guns Down America did not specify whether the money was directed only to Vista’s gun business, which the company had said it plans to sell.Marianne Lake, JPMorgan’s chief financial officer, said last year that the bank’s links to military-style firearms “have come down significantly and are pretty limited.” JPMorgan declined to comment on the Guns Down America grade.BB&T was last on the Guns Down America list. Its score of 20 was partly a result of its arranging $147 million in loans to the industry from 2012 to 2016 and partly a result of its recent involvement in a $78 million revolving credit line for Smith & Wesson, according to the gun control group.Brian Davis, a spokesman for BB&T, said the bank was “deeply concerned with the increasing amount of gun violence in our schools and communities,” and listened to “a wide range of opinions” on gun control. He said the bank did not comment publicly about its financial relationships.Guns Down America found that Wells Fargo, which fared slightly better at 25 points, had extended $471 million in loans and credit to gun makers since 2012, including a $40 million loan to Sturm Ruger last year. The N.R.A. also uses Wells Fargo, and the bank donated $92,000 to a group of lawmakers supported by the trade group, Guns Down America said.Trisha Schultz, a Wells Fargo spokeswoman, said in a statement that the bank planned to invest more than $10 million over three years in studying gun-violence prevention and in improving school safety. The bank, she said, has “a small and declining relationship with the N.R.A.”But Ms. Schultz added that “changes to gun laws and regulations should be determined through a legislative process that gives the American public an opportunity to participate and not be arbitrarily set by a bank.”“We do not believe that the American public wants banks to decide which legal products consumers can and cannot buy,” she said.Because of an editing error an earlier version of this article misidentified whose links to military-style firearms “have come down significantly and are pretty limited,” according to Marianne Lake, JPMorgan’s chief financial officer. Ms. Lake was referring to the bank’s links to such firearms, not Vista Outdoor’s links.Follow Tiffany Hsu on Twitter: @tiffkhsu.AdvertisementSupported by An innovative technology calculates the optimal time to talk about reform.By Pat Kelly, Chris Kelly, Lauren Bercovitch, Michael Tanko Grand and Taige JensenAdvertisementSupported byBy Sheryl Gay StolbergWASHINGTON — Emboldened House Democrats, seeking a politically charged debate on gun control, unveiled legislation on Tuesday to expand background checks to nearly all firearms purchases, a move timed to mark the eighth anniversary of the mass shooting in Arizona that nearly killed former Representative Gabrielle Giffords.By introducing the measure less than one week after taking control of the House, Democrats are signaling that it is a top priority. A vote could come within the first 100 days of the new Congress. The measure, and a companion bill introduced Tuesday in the Senate, also reflects the changing politics around gun laws, an issue many Democrats once shied away from.The bill, which will almost certainly pass the House but will face a steep climb in the Republican-controlled Senate, would require background checks on the purchases of nearly all firearms, including those sold at gun shows and over the internet. There would be limited exceptions, including for law enforcement officers and for guns transferred between close family members.Polls have shown that a vast majority of Americans — by some estimates, 90 percent — support universal background checks for all gun purchases. Many Democrats, including Representative Lucy McBath, a freshman from Georgia whose son was shot and killed at a Florida gas station, were elected last year after promising to address gun safety.“Today we take a decisive step to help save lives right away,” said Representative Mike Thompson, Democrat of California and the bill’s chief sponsor, adding, “From public polling to the ballot box, the American people have spoken up and demanded action.”By limiting the bill to background checks — and keeping out other provisions such as a ban on assault rifles or high-capacity magazines — gun safety advocates hope to pressure Republicans on a policy that has broad public support. In the Senate, Mitch McConnell of Kentucky, the majority leader, will have to decide whether to bring up the bill. In the House, Republicans will be forced to vote on it.“It will show us who’s with us and who’s against us,” said Patricia Maisch, 69, who survived the Jan. 8, 2011, mass shooting in Tucson that killed six and grievously injured Ms. Giffords.But by narrowing the bill so dramatically, Democrats may also limit its utility. Suspects in many recent high-profile mass shootings — including those in Pittsburgh; Parkland, Fla.; Thousand Oaks, Calif.; Las Vegas; and Sutherland Springs, Tex. — had passed background checks when purchasing their weapons.Even modest gun law changes rarely make it through Congress. The measure is similar to one written by Senators Joe Manchin III, Democrat of West Virginia, and Patrick J. Toomey, Republican of Pennsylvania, in response to the mass shooting that killed 20 children and six adults at Sandy Hook Elementary School in Newtown, Conn., in 2012. That bill, pressed hard by President Barack Obama and the parents of Sandy Hook victims, fell to a bipartisan filibuster in 2013 in a Senate controlled by Democrats.Then as now, the National Rifle Association opposed the measure.“So-called universal background checks will never be universal because criminals do not comply with the law,” said Jennifer Baker, a spokeswoman for the powerful gun lobby. She noted that the gunman who shot Ms. Giffords passed a background check. His name did not come up in the federal database even though he had mental health issues.The Democrats’ measure was unveiled at a news conference featuring Speaker Nancy Pelosi of California, Mr. Thompson, who helped write the House companion bill to Toomey-Manchin in 2013, and Ms. Giffords, as well as gun safety advocates and victims of gun violence from around the country. Mr. Thompson escorted Ms. Giffords, who as a former member is still permitted on the House floor, into the chamber so she could formally drop the bill into the “hopper” — the bin, located on the rostrum, where all legislation has its start.Ms. Giffords, 48, a Democrat who once opposed gun control, was shot in the head during a constituent meeting she was holding in a supermarket parking lot. Those who died included a 9-year-old girl and a young staff member for Ms. Giffords; 13 were injured, including Ms. Giffords, who suffered a serious brain injury that makes conversation difficult.“It’s been a long, hard haul, but I’m getting better,” Ms. Giffords told reporters at a breakfast Tuesday, reading from a prepared statement. She said she was still undergoing “speech therapy, physical therapy — and yoga, too.”Current law requires only federally licensed gun dealers to perform background checks. Gun safety advocates say the law is riddled with loopholes that allow felons, domestic abusers and others who would ordinarily be prohibited from buying guns to purchase them through private sales, including online and at gun shows.For gun safety advocates and victims of gun violence, Tuesday’s bill introduction represents an important shift in Washington after a year of devastating massacres, including the mass shooting at Marjory Stoneman Douglas High School in Parkland, Fla., last February, which spawned a powerful youth movement.“Successful legislative change follows cultural change,” said Emily Nottingham, whose son, Gabriel Zimmerman, then an aide to Ms. Giffords, was killed in the Tucson shooting. She added, “When more and more people recognize that this is a national issue that can affect all of us, not just a few people somewhere else, then cultural change happens, and that’s what we’re seeing now.”Under the Thompson bill, anyone who wanted to sell a gun but lacked a license would have to take the weapon to a licensed dealer, who would then conduct a background check on the purchaser.Transfers between law enforcement officers and military personnel acting in a professional capacity would be exempt, as would “a loan or bona fide gift between spouses, between domestic partners, between parents and their children, between siblings, between aunts and uncles and their nieces or nephews or between grandparents and their grandchildren,” according to the text of the bill.Transfers to executors of estates would also be exempt, as would temporary transfers of weapons for the purpose of hunting or to “prevent imminent death or great bodily harm.”AdvertisementSupported byBy The Associated PressWELLINGTON, New Zealand — New Zealand lawmakers have voted overwhelmingly in favor of new gun control measures during the first stage of a bill they hope to rush into law by the end of next week.The bill would ban the types of weapons a gunman used to kill 50 people at two mosques last month.Only one lawmaker from the 120 that sit in Parliament voted against the legislation in a bipartisan display of unity. Tuesday's vote was the first of three that lawmakers must pass before the bill becomes law.AdvertisementSupported byThe Parkland students became a force for gun control legislation and boosted the youth vote. Here’s how they changed America’s response to mass shootings. By Margaret Kramer and Jennifer HarlanOn Feb. 14, 2018, a former student slaughtered 17 people at Marjory Stoneman Douglas High School in Parkland, Fla. The next day, David Hogg, a student who survived the attack, expressed his frustration at the pattern of political inaction that seems to follow mass shootings in the United States. He was not surprised that there had been another school shooting, he said, and that fact alone “says so much about the current state that our country is in, and how much has to be done.”“We need to do something,” he said. In the course of the next year, students would change the way the nation handles mass shootings, spurring new gun legislation and school safety measures, and holding to account the adults they felt had failed them.Here’s a look at where they made those changes happen, and where they were disappointed. With Parkland, it was the students who set the agenda. Their openness about their pain made them formidable leaders of the movement for gun control, and their displays of strength and utter grief struck a chord with a nation numbed by repeated acts of violence.In the weeks after the shooting, busloads of Stoneman Douglas students took their case to the Florida capital and to Washington. With a rallying cry of “Never Again,” they gathered support from other young people and activists, and their March for Our Lives campaign spurred huge rallies and hundreds of protests, including a nationwide school walkout. The students’ pleas reached the White House, imploring President Trump to better protect schools and limit access to guns. And the movement brought youth activism to a new age — finding global power in social media and pushing public officials to acknowledge their accountability. [Read how the Parkland massacre has changed the lives of the survivors in their own words.]Three months after the massacre in Parkland, 10 people were killed in yet another school shooting, this one in Santa Fe, Tex., compounding the Stoneman Douglas students’ outrage and resolve, and placing them in a new role: consoling those who were suffering as they were. “Something about Parkland has been different,” said Melissa Strassner, a survivor of the Columbine school shooting in 1999. “They truly have inspired a nation.”Stoneman Douglas students and parents were outraged by what they viewed as gross incompetence on the part of school and law enforcement officials. Video showed that a sheriff’s deputy assigned to the school did not enter the building as the attack unfolded. Seven other deputies remained outside as gunshots rang out, a state commission found. And another officer prevented paramedics from entering.The school district also appeared to have missed several warning signs about the former student charged in the massacre, Nikolas Cruz. The parents of two 14-year-old students who were killed decided to run for the school board to fix what they thought went wrong. One of them won.And in January, Florida’s new Republican governor, Ron DeSantis, suspended Sheriff Scott Israel for his “neglect of duty” and “incompetence.” Mr. Israel, who is a Democrat and a vocal opponent of the National Rifle Association, continues to insist that the criticism of him is politically motivated and that “there was no wrongdoing on my part.” Multiple deputies have also been suspended, and one ultimately resigned.In the case of Mr. Cruz, the warning signs were many. There were the boasts about killing animals, the expulsion, the stalking of a female classmate, the repeated calls from his mother to the police. School counselors and a sheriff’s deputy decided at one point that he should be forcibly committed for psychiatric evaluation, only to apparently change their minds the next day. Multiple tips to the F.B.I. were left uninvestigated — one woman told the bureau’s tip line she was worried about Mr. Cruz going “into a school and just shooting the place up.” At that time, there was no law in Florida that would have prevented Mr. Cruz from buying a gun or would have allowed the police to take away his weapon. A gun control bill the state passed in March now allows law enforcement — with judicial approval — to bar a person deemed dangerous from owning guns for up to a year. Florida courts granted more than 1,000 such orders in the first nine months after the law took effect, according to The Associated Press. Eight other states have passed similar “red flag” laws in the last year, bringing the total with such laws to 14. Several more states are expected to take up measures in 2019.State legislatures, both Republican- and Democratic-controlled, passed 76 gun control laws in the past year  — from bans on bump stocks and caps on magazine sizes to new minimum-age requirements and expanded background checks. Among the victories for gun control advocates was an omnibus bill in Florida that raised the minimum age to purchase a firearm in the state to 21 and extended the waiting period to three days. In all, more than half the states passed at least one gun control measure in 2018, with Washington and New York joining the trend in 2019. At the same time, there were significantly fewer new state laws expanding gun rights in 2018 than the year before, according to an end-of-year report by the national advocacy group Giffords. Data provided by the N.R.A. also indicated that the number of enacted gun control measures outnumbered pro-gun measures for the first time in at least six years.But at the federal level, any momentum for change was quickly stymied by partisan gridlock. Republican leaders in Congress remained silent as their Democratic colleagues called, once again, for changes in the wake of a mass shooting. The White House flip-flopped on promises to raise the minimum age to purchase rifles and to enforce universal background checks. And the N.R.A. pressed lawmakers, including the president, to give priority to the interests of gun owners.[Nearly 1,200 children have been killed by gun violence since the shooting in Parkland. Read how teenage journalists told their stories.]In the end, the only significant national change was a ban on bump stocks — which members of both parties had been calling for since the Las Vegas shooting in October 2017. The House of Representatives, where Democrats took power in January, has now made gun safety a priority, and the Judiciary Committee passed two gun-control bills on Wednesday that would strengthen background checks and close a loophole that allowed Dylann S. Roof to buy a gun that he used in the Charleston church massacre in 2015. But with a Republican Senate and president, the chances of either measure moving beyond the House are virtually nil.In the days after Parkland, a flood of threats and false alarms heightened the focus on school security nationwide. Schools have turned to an array of measures: hiring armed guards, requiring students to carry clear backpacks, arming teachers with baseball bats. Some campuses have added more cameras and metal detectors or hired companies to monitor students’ social media for potential threats — all of which has created a lucrative market for school security.The president voiced support in the days after Parkland for arming teachers with guns as a way to prevent further massacres. It was an early indicator of the tack that he and congressional Republicans would take in addressing the shooting. In March, Mr. Trump announced the creation of a federal commission to examine school safety proposals, including raising the minimum age for buying certain firearms. But two months later, Education Secretary Betsy DeVos informed a Senate committee that the commission would not look at the role guns play in school violence. Its final report played down the role of guns, and advised schools to improve mental health services and train school personnel to use firearms.When it became clear that Congress would not act on guns, the Parkland students turned their attention to rallying young voters and increasing turnout in the midterm elections in November.Madison Leal, a student at Stoneman Douglas, said in March about politicians who would not take action: “I’m going to vote them out of office. And so is my entire generation. And they’ll be sorry then.” In the summer, a busload of students traveled the country on a Road to Change tour aimed at registering young voters. In tandem with various voter groups and celebrities promoting registration, the Parkland students helped spike record numbers for young voter registration, registering thousands of voters at their rallies. The March for Our Lives campaign reported a 10 percent increase in youth turnout in 2018, compared with the previous midterm elections in 2014.AdvertisementSupported byBy Emily CochraneWASHINGTON — The House on Thursday rebuffed a furious lobbying campaign by the National Rifle Association and approved a revamped Violence Against Women Act that would expand law enforcement’s ability to restrict gun purchases by convicted domestic abusers.The legislation passed easily, 263 to 158, but the divided vote came on what was once a broadly bipartisan measure first passed in 1994. In recent years, partisan rancor over efforts to expand the protections of the legislation have clouded efforts to renew it, and this year, the divide was over gun control.The provisions would close the so-called boyfriend loophole and bar those under a restraining order or who were convicted of abusing, assaulting or stalking a domestic partner from buying guns. The N.R.A. seized on the new measures and warned Congress that it would track and publish how lawmakers voted, hoping to intimidate Republicans and Democrats in Republican-leaning districts.“Do not let the N.R.A. bully you,” Representative Debbie Dingell, Democrat of Michigan, urged her colleagues before the vote, noting that her recently deceased husband, former Representative John Dingell Jr., also a Democrat, was a member of the organization.Thirty-three Republicans bucked the threat and voted with the Democratic majority in favor of the legislation — among them, Representative Brian Fitzpatrick of Pennsylvania, the sole Republican sponsor of the reauthorization. Representative Jeff Fortenberry, Republican of Nebraska, voted present.Democrats, including all of the freshman members who won in districts swept by Donald J. Trump in 2016, stood up to the gun lobby, with only one — Representative Collin C. Peterson of Minnesota — voting no.Many in the new majority campaigned on tightening access to guns, and they appeared to embrace condemnation from the gun lobby as a badge of honor.“Lawmakers should be reading the tea leaves,” said Shannon Watts, the founder of Moms Demand Action for Gun Sense in America, a group that supports restricting gun laws. “In the midterm elections, it was gun safety that got people to the polls.”Other supporters of the legislation argued that the gun provisions made up only a fraction of the protections offered by the bill, and included invaluable resources for survivors.“This wasn’t a gun bill — this is a bill to protect women,” said Lisette Johnson, a member of the Everytown Survivor Network and a survivor of domestic abuse. “This passing today is really a huge support for women and keeping them safer.”Republicans had advocated a clean one-year extension of the current law, which expired in February, arguing that new elements of the legislation were controversial and overreached — in particular, the gun restrictions and language offering additional protections to transgender people.“Can we stop playing political games at the expense of vulnerable women?” asked Representative Elise Stefanik, Republican of New York, before the vote, arguing that the bill put forward by Democrats would “collect dust in the Senate.” (Democrats, who booed vigorously during her speech, rejected her motion.)The vote highlighted the stark contrasts between the new Democratic majority, with its historic number of women, and the Republican minority, which has struggled to attract female voters and to increase the number of conservative women holding office on Capitol Hill. Democrats framed opposition to the legislation’s renewal as a denial of protections for survivors of abuse, efforts to prevent domestic violence and support for law enforcement.Representative Sharice Davids, Democrat of Kansas and one of the first two Native American women elected to Congress in November, presided over the final vote on the measure, which contains a number of protections for women on tribal lands — including a new provision that would allow tribal courts to prosecute nonnative people accused of domestic crimes or dating violence on tribal lands.A number of Democrats, including Ms. Dingell and Representative Katie Porter of California, offered passionate defenses of the legislation, repeatedly drawing on their own experiences as survivors of domestic abuse.“I know that fear, I know that terror and I just want to try to save another family from going through that terror,” Ms. Dingell said at a news conference on Wednesday, recalling being afraid as a child that her father, who had mental illness and owned a gun, would harm her mother or her siblings. “Why would you not close that loophole?”Republicans, beyond objecting to what they said was an infringement on gun ownership, argued that the measure contained other proposals that were too broad for a law intended to protect survivors of assault. In previous hearings and speeches, they had singled out provisions that would expand protections for transgender people and require the Bureau of Prisons to consider the safety and protection of transgender prisoners when giving housing assignments.“We find ourselves debating a VAWA reauthorization act that is literally a Christmas tree of progressive liberal policy objectives, rather than an honest approach to reforming and updating such an important law,” said Representative Debbie Lesko, Republican of Arizona, who is a survivor of domestic abuse.The legislation heads to the Senate, where Senators Dianne Feinstein, Democrat of California, and Joni Ernst, Republican of Iowa, have said they will lead efforts to pass a version. It is unclear how many of the new gun provisions in the House legislation will prevail in the Republican-controlled Senate.“There are a number of improvements in the House bill that I think should be in our version, including preserving improvements already made in the 2013 reauthorization,” Ms. Feinstein said in a statement after the vote. “I hope the Senate will move quickly. This is an important law and one the Senate should take very seriously and act upon expeditiously.”Paul Manafort’s Trail of ScandalsMy Dead Dad’s Porno TapesTen Meter TowerBetween Sound and SilenceCoal Miner to Trump: “Coal Mining Isn’t Coming Back”House Tour | Cary LeibowitzSanctuary City HotlineAdvertisementSupported byBy Sheryl Gay Stolberg and Catie EdmondsonWASHINGTON — House Democrats are poised this week to adopt legislation requiring background checks for all gun purchasers, the first major expansion of gun control laws in a quarter century and the opening salvo in a broader drive to address an issue that once sharply divided the party.In back-to-back votes, the House will take up two separate background check measures. On Wednesday it will consider the Bipartisan Background Checks Act, which would require background checks for all firearm sales, including those sold at gun shows and online. On Thursday it will turn to the Enhanced Background Checks Act, which would extend the time allotted for the F.B.I. to conduct background checks.The action in the House reflects dramatic changes in the political climate over guns that culminated with last year’s midterm elections. A string of mass shootings, coupled with student-led activism after last year’s massacre at Marjory Stoneman Douglas High School in Parkland, Fla., produced a wave of Democratic candidates — including some from Republican-leaning districts — who ran and won while calling for limits on access to guns.“It’s a real moment for the nation,” said one of those Democrats, Representative Lucy McBath of Georgia, who began advocating for gun control after her 17-year-old son, Jordan Davis, was shot dead in 2012. “We’re at a critical mass now where families are just saying they’ve had enough.”Both measures face dim prospects in the Republican-controlled Senate. Senator John Thune of South Dakota, the No. 3 Republican, said Tuesday it was “unlikely” the Senate would take them up.But this week’s House action is still significant. The last time Congress passed major gun control legislation was 1994, when an assault weapons ban was enacted, along with the so-called Brady Bill, which required background checks on most gun sales.Democrats were punished roundly at the polls that year, with Republicans taking control of Congress and not relinquishing it for 12 years. For years afterward, Democrats were skittish about taking up gun-related bills.The assault weapons ban expired in 2004, when Congress was under Republican control. When Democrats held the House from 2007 to 2011, no gun legislation was passed.“There are still differences within our party as to how far we want to go,” Representative Steny D. Hoyer of Maryland, the House Democratic leader, told reporters on Tuesday. But Mr. Hoyer said he is convinced that the two bills being voted on this week have the support of the “overwhelming majority of the American people.”Robin Lloyd, the managing director of the Giffords Law Center to Prevent Gun Violence, praised House Democrats for prioritizing the measures, noting that just a year ago, the Republican-controlled House tried — but failed — to pass legislation that would have required states to recognize concealed weapons permits issued in other states, effectively creating a national law allowing concealed weapons. That bill is a high priority for the National Rifle Association.“Now we’re having the opposite conversation, and I do think that demonstrates how quickly this shift has happened,” Ms. Lloyd said. “It is a paradigm shift from where we were even 18 months ago.”House Republicans, however, have been scathing in their criticism of the bills.“This bill turns law-abiding citizens into criminals and it’s one more step toward federalized gun registration and ultimately gun confiscation,” said Representative Steve Scalise of Louisiana, the Republican whip, who was shot in the hip and gravely wounded in 2017 when a gunman fired on members of the Republican congressional baseball team practicing in Virginia.Republicans including Mr. Scalise argue that expanding background checks would not have prevented many of the mass shootings that have garnered public attention in recent years. Most of those massacres were carried out with guns purchased legally by gunmen who passed background checks.The bills to expand background checks are the first in what could be a series of measures to address gun violence, said Representative Mike Thompson, Democrat of California, who leads a congressional Gun Violence Prevention Task Force. Mr. Thompson said the group has a “pretty aggressive schedule” and is bringing in experts to advise on what will reduce gun violence.Ms. McBath, a task force member, said the group is also looking at measures to reduce children’s access to guns, and also “red flag laws” that give authorities or household members the ability to seek court orders that would prohibit gun purchases by those deemed a risk to themselves or others.Congress did pass a modest gun-related bill last year, the so-called Fix Nics Act, which required federal agencies and states to do a better job of reporting criminal offenses and other information into the national instant check system, or Nics. And since the Parkland massacre, gun safety advocates have made great strides outside the capital; in 2018, legislators in 26 states and the District of Columbia passed 67 gun safety measures, according to a recent analysis by the Giffords Law Center.The last time Congress considered major gun safety legislation was in 2013, after the massacre that killed 20 children and six adults at the Sandy Hook Elementary School in Newtown, Conn.With survivors of mass shootings looking down from the gallery — and amid cries of “Shame on you!” — the Senate at that time fell short of the 60 votes required to break a filibuster on a bipartisan bill similar to the measure the House will take up Wednesday. That bill’s sponsors, Senators Joe Manchin III, Democrat of West Virginia, and Patrick J. Toomey, Republican of Pennsylvania, did not sound optimistic on Tuesday about the prospects for reviving it.“I need some help,” Mr. Manchin said. “I need some Republican help.”Mr. Toomey said he has been “working to try to find where we could get to consensus.” But, he added, “It’s looking like it’s an uphill battle to get 60 votes.”Thursday marks the 25th anniversary of the Brady Bill, named for James. S. Brady, the White House press secretary injured during an assassination attempt on President Ronald Reagan in 1981. That bill took more than six years and seven votes to pass, according to Kris Brown, president of the Brady Center to Prevent Gun Violence, which this week is rebranding itself under the name “Brady.” But it did not address gun show sales or sales over the internet, which have exploded since then.“For us at Brady, it’s a really meaningful and frankly almost emotional moment,” Ms. Brown said, referring to the coming House votes.Under federal law, if a gun consumer does not pass a background check instantly, the F.B.I. has three business days to determine whether there is sufficient evidence to deny a purchase. If they are unable to do so, on the fourth day, the purchaser can return to the dealer and buy a gun.Paul Manafort’s Trail of ScandalsMy Dead Dad’s Porno TapesTen Meter TowerBetween Sound and SilenceCoal Miner to Trump: “Coal Mining Isn’t Coming Back”House Tour | Cary LeibowitzSanctuary City HotlineAdvertisementSupported byBy Damien CaveCHRISTCHURCH, New Zealand — When the prime minister announced plans to ban semiautomatic rifles following Friday’s mass shootings, it seemed to be the bold response that many New Zealanders wanted — until the country’s attorney general backpedaled almost immediately and said that might not be the government’s final decision.Even after a massacre that left 50 people dead, the fight over guns and safety will be a fraught one for politicians in peaceful New Zealand, just as it is in the United States.But there is a crucial difference between the two countries that is already apparent: While Washington struggles to take action even as such shootings become more routine, New Zealand’s government is immediately diving into a detailed discussion of further legislative checks on guns.The outright prohibition of semiautomatic weapons proposed by Prime Minister Jacinda Ardern may no longer be on the near-term table. But she’s made clear that lawmakers will look at a range of options, from gun buybacks to restrictions on magazines for semiautomatic rifles.“New Zealand has to have this debate,” said Alexander Gillespie, a law professor at the University of Waikato, who once predicted that the country’s approach to firearms would lead to more mass shootings. “This is a place where your car has to be registered, your dog has to be registered. But your gun doesn’t.”[New Zealand will open an inquiry on what was known about the gunman before the massacre.]New Zealand’s relationship to firearms amounts to a sliding scale of restrictions. Gun owners need a license, but the most commonly used guns, like hunting rifles, are never registered and can be easily bought and sold in large quantities. Handguns and semiautomatic weapons are more closely tracked, requiring a permit for each purchase and a separate license — making it harder but not impossible to amass an arsenal.The mix of freedom and regulation reflects the country’s frontier history, according to experts, who note that New Zealand’s link to weaponry bears a resemblance to the United States, Australia and Canada, but with a few important distinctions.Many Americans can buy a gun in less than an hour. In New Zealand, the process can take weeks or months.There is no right to own a gun here, as there is in the United States; rather, it is considered a privilege with responsibility.The gun culture that has developed tends to be organized, careful and not particularly widespread. Of the 3.9 million New Zealanders of gun-licensing age, 238,000 — 6 percent — have a firearm license, according to GunPolicy.org.In the United States, according to a Pew study from 2017, three out of 10 Americans report owning at least one firearm.New Zealand has also been comfortable with the idea of restricting access to certain weapons for almost as long as the country has existed. In 1845, colonial leaders tried to stop the flow of muskets into tribal areas.After a mass shooting in 1990, when a man killed 13 people, including two 6-year-olds, after a dispute with his neighbor in the seaside town of Aramoana, New Zealand’s Parliament added additional license requirements for semiautomatic weapons and handguns.“On the whole New Zealand doesn’t prohibit firearms,” Mr. Gillespie said. “New Zealand reacts with regulations.”After a handful of failures to push through stronger rules over the past decade, he and others said, the question now is how far the government will try to go to further control guns.Some gun owners argue the laws on the books are enough, and that no amount of additional legislation would have prevented Friday’s massacre.“First of all, this is insanity,” said Mike Loder, a contributor to Kiwi Gun Blog. “We know why he did it. He did it in revenge for a Muslim killing people with a truck. It wasn’t about guns.” Mr. Loder was referring to the shooter’s own widely reported account of his radicalization.But compared with those in the United States, conversations about guns tend to be calmer and less ideological in New Zealand. Many New Zealanders seem eager to find some middle ground, with the latest round of arguments over the country’s gun laws inevitably being shaped by countervailing forces.On the one hand, with its current gun laws, New Zealand had one of the lowest murder rates in the world, as of a week ago. But the horrific bloodshed at the two mosques has clearly shaken what had been the country’s prevailing sense of safety.“We’ve lived in a utopia, but the world’s caught up with us,” said Chris Cahill, head of the Police Association, a union of police officers. “Our innocence is gone.”A shift may already be rippling through the country.On Sunday morning, Raymond Healey, 49, a member of the Christchurch Pistol Club, arrived at a local shooting range, hoping to get some time firing at targets. He was greeted with a white sign, painted in red capital letters: “range closed.”Wearing olive green fleece, khaki pants and untied boots, Mr. Healey said he wasn’t surprised given news of the shootings. He said the gun backlash was also to be expected.“I can understand why people would want more restrictions,” he said.He added that he’d be willing to consider changes. “There are always improvements that could be made to the law,” Mr. Healey said. “There probably are loopholes.”One of the main ones, experts say, involves how easy it is to turn a legal semiautomatic weapon into an illegal killing machine with magazines of ammunition that go beyond what is allowed.Under New Zealand law, the most common A license allows for the purchase of a semiautomatic rifle with a magazine containing seven bullets. An E license is needed for semiautomatics with larger magazines, and it can only be obtained through a more elaborate process of interviews and references.But there are no restrictions on the purchase of magazines.“Anybody can buy them without a license,” Mr. Healey said. “I thought for a long time you shouldn’t be able to do that.”On Saturday, the police said the gunman had modified a “category A firearm,” suggesting that he purchased a semiautomatic with the basic license then added magazines with illegal levels of firepower.Ross Mason, the chairman of the National Rifle Association of New Zealand, which is not connected to the American N.R.A., also said the purchase of magazines raised issues.But he cautioned against a wider ban on semiautomatic rifles in general.“The reason they became available here is because we were trying to eliminate deer from our forest and bush and other four-legged pests, so there was a lot of shooting of these animals from helicopters,” Mr. Mason said. “You needed to have something to fire shots very quickly.”Out of concern that gun sales might be significantly restricted, Radio New Zealand reported that there was a rush on gun stores this weekend, with people “panic buying” weapons.Prime Minister Ardern seems to be listening, at least for now, to all sides in the debate.She also seems determined to do what the United States Congress has not, which is to act.“Our gun laws will change — now is the time,” Ms. Ardern said Saturday. “People will be seeking change, and I am committed to that.”Reporting was contributed by Emily Steel, Charlotte Graham-McLay and Jamie Tarabay from Christchurch; and Danny Hakim from New York.Want more coverage from Australia and New Zealand? Sign up for the weekly Australia Letter, start your day with your local Morning Briefing and join us in our Facebook group.AdvertisementSupported byBy The Associated PressWELLINGTON, New Zealand — New Zealand lawmakers on Tuesday voted overwhelmingly in favor of new gun restrictions during the first stage of a bill they hope to rush into law by the end of next week.The bill would ban the types of weapons a gunman used to kill 50 people at two mosques last month.The bill was backed by both liberals and conservatives, with only a single lawmaker from the 120 that sit in Parliament voting against it. The vote was the first of three that lawmakers must pass before the bill becomes law.Police Minister Stuart Nash said far too many people have access to dangerous guns and lawmakers were driven by the need to ensure public safety."We are also driven by the memory of 50 men, women and children who were taken from their loved ones on the 15th of March," Nash said. "Their memory is our responsibility. We don't ever want to see an attack like this in our country again. We are compelled to act quickly."Seemingly drawing a distinction with the U.S., where gun possession is constitutionally protected, Nash said that in New Zealand, gun ownership remains a privilege and not a right.Conservative lawmaker David Seymour voted against the bill, saying it was too rushed."Doing it in nine days before politicians go on their Easter break is starting to look more like political theater than public safety," he said.But Seymour was so busy explaining to reporters his reasons for opposing the bill that he missed a procedural vote in which he could have tried to slow its passage.Many New Zealanders were shocked at the firepower the gunman was able to legally obtain and favor the legislative changes.Some are opposed. More than 14,000 have signed a petition filed in Parliament which says the law changes are "unjust" for law-abiding citizens and are being driven by emotions.AdvertisementSupported byBy Vivian Wang and Jesse McKinley [What you need to know to start the day: Get New York Today in your inbox.]ALBANY — New York lawmakers on Tuesday approved the most comprehensive set of gun bills in the state in six years, including measures that would ban bump stocks, prohibit teachers from carrying guns in schools and extend the waiting period for gun buyers who do not pass an instant background check.In total, six gun bills passed easily through the State Senate and Assembly, a remarkable sight in a Capitol that for years had resisted almost all new legislation on the subject.Gov. Andrew M. Cuomo, a Democrat, last ushered a major gun safety package into law in 2013, after the massacre at Sandy Hook Elementary School in Newtown, Conn. The governor successfully corralled recalcitrant Senate Republicans into supporting the so-called Safe Act that expanded the state’s ban on assault weapons, tightened certification requirements, increased criminal penalties for illegal guns and closed private sale loopholes.Mr. Cuomo has described the Safe Act as one of his signature achievements. But it has also become a rallying cry for some gun owners and Republican politicians who felt it overreached.“Sometimes history irrefutably bears out your actions,” the governor said on Tuesday, at a news conference lined with gun safety advocates. “Today is the next evolution in this ongoing crusade.”The relative ease of the laws’ passage highlighted, for the second time in just two days, the upheaval that November’s election brought to Albany. Democrats captured the Senate for the first time in a decade, delivering one-party control of state government. Since the legislative session began this month, both chambers have sent long-stymied bills in rapid-fire procession to the governor’s desk.On Monday, for example, a bill to protect child sex abuse victims sailed through the Legislature, 13 years after its introduction. The Senate, which under Republican rule never allowed the bill to reach the floor for a vote, unanimously approved it.Tuesday’s marquee gun bills passed largely along partisan lines. No Republican senators voted to extend the waiting period for completing background checks to 30 days from three. Just one voted for the proposal to ban arming teachers.The most debated item was a so-called red flag bill, which would allow family members, school officials or law enforcement to ask courts to temporarily block someone from buying or owning a gun, if the judge decided that person posed a potential risk.That provision in particular drew an emotional response from Linda Beigel Schulman, whose son, Scott, grew up on Long Island and was teaching at Stoneman Douglas High School in Parkland, Fla. during the massacre there last year; he was killed while helping students flee the shooter.“Parkland would’ve never happened if they had a red flag law,” Ms. Schulman said while sitting alongside Mr. Cuomo, adding that one of the killer’s former teachers told her that the shooter had showed disturbing tendencies.Senator Brian Kavanagh, a Democrat from New York City who sponsored the bill, said the number of New York state residents who die each year — 772 in 2017, according to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention — because of guns “is unacceptable.” He added: “It’s also preventable.”California, Washington, Indiana and Connecticut have similar provisions to keep guns away from high-risk people.Republicans suggested the bill would allow people to randomly curtail Second Amendment rights for many New Yorkers.“Today’s actions infringe upon the rights of law-abiding citizens,” said Senator Pamela Helming, from Central New York.The bill ultimately passed the Senate 42-21, and the Assembly 83-32.A few proposals did earn Republican votes: those that would establish a gun buyback program, and that would prohibit the sale of bump stocks, which enable semiautomatic rifles to fire in sustained, rapid bursts. A bill allowing New York regulators to access mental health records for out-of-state gun buyers passed nearly unanimously.The governor acknowledged that strengthening New York’s gun laws could invite legal challenges from gun advocacy groups and activists, given the conservative tilt of the Supreme Court. The high court’s justices recently announced that they would review a New York City gun law, the court’s first Second Amendment case in nearly a decade.Several Republicans accused Democrats of grandstanding by pushing laws that already exist; for example, President Trump imposed a federal ban on bump stocks last year after the mass murder of 58 people in Las Vegas. (The ban is regulatory, however, not statutory, and several groups have announced their intention to challenge it in court.)Mr. Cuomo, a frequent and favorite antagonist of the National Rifle Association, has been accused of politicizing gun control for his own benefit. But he also has a long record of fighting for stricter gun regulations, and he has frequently pointed out that his public support, especially upstate, never fully recovered after passage of the Safe Act.On Tuesday, Democratic leaders in the Legislature also made their antipathy to widespread gun use clear.“I personally don’t agree with it, but I respect it,” the Assembly speaker, Carl E. Heastie, said of the Second Amendment.Senator Andrea Stewart-Cousins, the Senate majority leader, promised further action in the coming months. The only other major gun legislation passed since the Safe Act was a law last year to take guns away from domestic abusers.“It will not be six years, believe me, between sensible gun laws,” she said.AdvertisementSupported byThe EthicistBy Kwame Anthony AppiahAs a gun owner who abhors the ‘‘slippery slope’’ philosophy of the N.R.A., every new mass shooting sickens me. I would like to sell one of my three weapons and give the proceeds to March for Our Lives or Everytown for Gun Safety. Is it better to: 1) Sell it knowing the $750-$1,000 would do some good; 2) Keep the gun knowing it won’t be used; or 3) Destroy it/surrender it to the police for disposal? Name WithheldBy the ‘‘slippery slope’’ philosophy of the N.R.A., I assume you mean its tendency to argue that any proposed gun regulation is a step toward canceling the Second Amendment: to equate restriction with abolition. I assume too that you think that some of these mass shootings could have been stopped by laws that the N.R.A. opposes and that are nevertheless consistent with the Constitution. The gun-control organizations you mention share those beliefs; sending them a check would express your support and enable you to join the community of people trying to do something about gun violence.But the case against (1) is that your check, which isn’t going to make the difference between success and failure for either of these gun-control groups, scarcely changes the likelihood of future gun deaths, while selling the gun marginally increases the likelihood that it will end up being used in a crime. As for (2), you can’t be absolutely sure that a gun won’t cause harm just because it’s in your house. For one thing, someone might break in and steal it; for another, you might use it against yourself. Suicide, remember, accounts for a majority of gun-related deaths. If you went for (3), you could render the gun harmless by having it destroyed, but doing so wouldn’t much change the likelihood of future gun deaths, either.One reason that I have misgivings about what’s been called ‘‘quandary ethics’’ — ethics conceived of as solving puzzles like these — is that, as in this case, it can be close to impossible to calculate the costs and benefits of the various outcomes you consider. A deeper problem is that there are typically options you haven’t considered. In this case, you could wait for a gun-buyback program — they’ve had these recently in many cities — and send the money (which would be less than the market value of your weapon) to one of these organizations, thus both supporting gun control and making sure that the weapon won’t be used for malign purposes.For that matter, you could throw yourself into the work of one of these organizations, which are going to succeed only if more of their supporters aren’t content with just sending them money. The influence of the N.R.A. can’t be reduced to the power of the purse; though its political expenditures far exceed those of gun-control groups, its finances are surprisingly precarious. And note that the labor sector, say, hugely outspends it, while its political power has seemed to diminish. Many political experts would say that the N.R.A.’s ability to mobilize its millions of members has a lot to do with its efficacy. If gun control matters to you, your support shouldn’t be limited to your checkbook.I agreed to sponsor a cousin’s immigration application, which involved affirming I can and will provide the applicant with a financial safety net for seven years. I’d met the cousin only once, but I count his aunts among my favorite relatives and was told by his father that he is financially independent, hardworking and eager to contribute to his new homeland.With the process underway, my cousin’s father came to visit, and the two insisted on conveying their gratitude by hosting my family at a brunch. Somehow the subject of Trump came up. Though my husband and I did not vote for the president, we maintain relationships with friends and family who did. Yet hearing the young man that we put on the road to citizenship express his admiration for Trump and his anti-immigration policies struck us as odd. I prodded ever so gently: At what point should the president close the gate — before or after your papers are finalized? Without a hint of irony, he clarified that, of course, he was referring to the wrong kind of immigrants. Hours later, I couldn’t shake the notion that we’d made a terrible mistake. Yes, my husband and I refuse to allow politics to define our social circle, but could we remain neutral, knowing that we’d inadvertently recruited a new supporter of Trump’s views on immigration, which we regard as racist — or worse? And if we decide that we cannot, should we break with our extended family by revoking our support of my cousin’s application? Or could we let the cousin know that we find his views on immigration hypocritical and make our ongoing support of his application contingent on his joining the 50 percent of Americans who choose not to exercise their right to vote? Name WithheldI’m not sure you’ve found a great way to model social tolerance. Your cousin sounds pretty blinkered in his views, I’ll grant. But adding one more bigot to the American population isn’t going to make a difference in our politics. And if he ends up, as is most likely, living in one of our great, culturally plural metropolises, his views on immigration may well evolve. Either way, it would be wrong to try to blackmail him into not exercising the right to vote — and ineffectual, because such an agreement would be unenforceable.Nor is it fair, at this point, to pull out from your affidavit of support, unless you think that something you were told and that you therefore attested to was substantially untrue. You do have every right to tell him — like anyone else who expresses political views you consider odious — why you think he’s wrong. Given what you have done for him, he owes it to you to pay attention to what you say. But if your sponsoring your cousin was right, it didn’t become wrong when you learned about his opinions.The point can be broadened. Policies you support in principle aren’t invalidated when their beneficiaries turn out to have vexing or perverse views. We don’t withdraw Social Security Disability Insurance from those who think that its other beneficiaries are largely wastrels. We don’t deny Medicare coverage to those who are skeptical of the program. We can’t give up on public-health measures to reduce suicide simply because suicide rates are highest in ‘‘red state’’ regions that aren’t inclined to back such measures. And a partisan who favors only the expanded immigration of people inclined to support her party isn’t interested in immigration reform; she’s interested in allies. Your cousin’s views, as I say, may evolve; perhaps yours will, too.My stepdaughter-in-law confided in me that she is planning on leaving my stepson. They have a young child. She also informed me that she’s gay. She asked me to be discreet with this information, but I feel compelled to do something; I don’t feel that it’s fair for my stepson to be hit out of the blue. Is there a way for me to encourage her to talk to her husband, or should I say something directly to him? I’m fine with keeping the information about her sexuality secret. It’s more her plan to dump him that is weighing on me. I’m concerned not only for his well-being but also for how this secret could affect my relationship with him if he finds out I knew and didn’t say anything. Name WithheldAdvertisementSupported byBy Nick Corasaniti[What you need to know to start the day: Get New York Today in your inbox.]It began as an operation targeting a cocaine ring in southern New Jersey. But after investigators listened to a wire tap, the case took on an unexpected focus: do-it-yourself firearms made from parts easily found online.The suspects in New Jersey are accused of trying to sell several homemade AR-15 assault-style rifles that are known as ghost guns because they cannot be tracked. The AR-15 rifle is a powerful weapon similar to the one used to kill 11 people last year at a Pittsburgh synagogue.On Monday, New Jersey law enforcement officials announced the arrests of four men who became the first defendants charged under a law passed last year that makes it illegal to buy, manufacture, possess or sell homemade guns in the state. California is the only other state that restricts such weapons, but New Jersey’s version is far more stringent, according to national gun control groups.In fact, one of the suspects is heard on a wiretap specifically citing New Jersey’s law and saying they had to move the weapon sales out of state.“Ghost guns are a real and dangerous menace,” Gurbir Grewal, the attorney general of New Jersey, said in a news conference in Camden where he discussed the case. “They offer criminals, convicted felons, terrorists, domestic abusers, people who we all agree shouldn’t access firearms, the ability to access them.”New Jersey already has some of the country’s toughest gun laws, but buying parts individually and assembling them at home — often with the help of online videos and instructions — could allow people with criminal records and others who would not pass background checks to obtain guns.Marketed to gun enthusiasts who enjoy building their own firearms, companies that sell kits are making it easier for guns to circulate illegally, law enforcement authorities and gun control advocates said.“You go to some of the websites, they offer you discounts if you buy a pack of five or a pack of 10,” said J. Adam Skaggs, the chief counsel and policy director at the Giffords Law Center to Prevent Gun Violence. “Now, you ask yourself, am I going to buy a discounted 10-pack of ghost guns because I want to build myself 10 guns to use at the range? Or am I going to buy a 10-pack if I’m a would-be trafficker who wants to start a little factory of my own and sell these at a markup to people who can’t pass a background check?”Across the country, there have been arrests involving ghost guns with the accused charged with violating other state and federal laws. In New York, a police sergeant was accused of selling ghost guns to members of a motorcycle gang who had criminal records.The difficulty of disrupting illegal ghost gun operations is underscored by the circuitous route that led authorities to the trafficking ring in New Jersey.The investigation began as a probe into a large cocaine ring in Lindenwold, a town in Camden County, Mr. Grewal said. Law enforcement authorities only became aware of the illegal gun trafficking through conversations between two of the alleged members of the criminal network that were secretly recorded.“They changed some law,” one suspect was recorded saying, “so we gotta go over to Philly to pick them up.”A second suspect said, “We just gotta go out of state now.’’The suspects would have parts for guns shipped across the Delaware River to Pennsylvania to get around the New Jersey law, and then would bring them back into the state, Mr. Grewal said.Law enforcement officials eventually recovered six AR-15 rifles made from parts without serial numbers, which were being offered on the black market for $1,100 to $1,300, nearly double the market price for an AR-15 assault-style rifle. They also intercepted parts for two more assault-style rifles that had been shipped to Pennsylvania.Another eight men were also arrested as part of the illicit operation and were charged mostly with drug-related offenses.Though these were the first arrests for trafficking ghost guns under the new law, Mr. Grewal said other ghost guns have turned up in the state. The State Police had recovered “well over 15 in the last year,’’ he said.“We are starting to see them at crime scenes,’’ he added. “We are starting to see them in our investigations. They are not an abstract threat. They are a real threat to public safety.”There are multiple investigations into ghost gun manufacturers and criminal networks, Mr. Grewal said. But, he added, responsibility also rests with manufacturers.“When you see repeatedly the same address and the same individuals at the same location continuing to order parts and parts and parts and parts for the same types of guns, some red flags have to go up,” Mr. Grewal said.Follow Nick Corasaniti on Twitter: @NYTnickc AdvertisementSupported byBy Mike IvesIt was the liquor talking, apparently.Two officials from an anti-immigrant political party in Australia said on Tuesday that an undercover recording of them explaining the political influence that money from the American gun lobby could potentially buy was not what it seemed.Their comments, they said, were just small talk made over rounds of scotch.In the recording, James Ashby, the chief of staff for Pauline Hanson, leader of the One Nation party, is heard to say that his right-wing party could “own” the Australian Senate and House of Representatives with a $20 million donation from the American gun lobby.The recording — by a reporter for Al Jazeera — was made in the United States during a trip last year, just weeks before an Australian law banning foreign political donations took effect.The recording was revealed on Monday in the first part of a two-part Al Jazeera documentary, “How to Sell a Massacre,” for which the Australian reporter Rodger Muller posed for years as a gun-rights advocate.Through the guise of a fake organization called Gun Rights Australia, Mr. Muller introduced Mr. Ashby and Steve Dickson, the One Nation party’s Queensland leader, to representatives from the National Rifle Association and Koch Industries during a trip to the United States in September.On Tuesday, Prime Minister Scott Morrison said on Twitter that reports of One Nation officials soliciting donations from the American gun lobby “to influence our elections & undermine our gun laws that keep us safe are deeply concerning.”Mr. Morrison, the leader of Australia’s Liberal Party, also accused One Nation of trying to “sell Australia’s gun laws to the highest bidders,” and said the revelations were another reason Australians should not vote for the One Nation party in general elections expected in May.Bill Shorten, the leader of the opposition Labor Party, accused One Nation of a “betrayal of the Australian political system.”“The idea of One Nation political party operatives going to the United States, seeking millions of dollars, promising to water down gun law protection in Australia — that was absolutely horrifying,” Mr. Shorten said.But Mr. Ashby told reporters on Tuesday that the meetings with the N.R.A. had been about sourcing technology and gaining “an understanding of how they operate.” He said they were never about requesting $20 million, and that he and Mr. Dickson had traveled to the United States on a fact-finding mission.“The conversations that have been recorded where there is talk of $10 and $20 million dollars — I’ll be the first to admit, we’d arrived in America, we’d got on the sauce, we’d had a few drinks,” Mr. Ashby said.“And that’s where those discussions took place,” he continued. “Not with any potential donors. No one but Rodger Muller, Steve Dickson and myself.”Many Americans can buy a gun in less than an hour. In New Zealand, the process can take weeks or months.Mr. Dickson said that Mr. Muller, the journalist, had “seemed to be a very reasonable guy” — an impression he said was bolstered by Mr. Muller’s Akubra bush hat, akin to an American cowboy hat. He said the conversation was merely a product of “having scotches for three or four hours.”“I never, ever, suspected in my wildest dreams that that guy was employed by a Middle Eastern country, by Al Jazeera, as an Australian spy to interfere in Australian politics,” Mr. Dickson said.Al Jazeera, a satellite network based in Qatar and owned by that country’s government, said in a report on Tuesday that the documentary “provides a rare inside view of how the N.R.A. deliberates over mass shootings and seeks to manipulate media coverage to push its pro-gun agenda.”In an email, Jennifer Baker, the director of public affairs for the N.R.A., called Al Jazeera a “state-owned anti-gun” network and said, “At no time did the N.R.A. contribute funding to any Australian political party or Gun Rights Australia.”The Australian government introduced some of the world’s toughest gun laws in 1996, after a gunman with a semiautomatic rifle killed 35 people in the town of Port Arthur.The rate of intentional gun deaths in Australia had fallen about 33 percent from 1986 to 1996, the year of the Port Arthur massacre. But the decline accelerated after the new gun control measures were enacted, with the rate dropping about 60 percent from 1996 to 2006. President Barack Obama later cited the laws as a potential model for the United States.One Nation’s website says that the focus of its firearms policy is to “move away from trying to criminalize firearms ownership to punishing criminals for the use of firearms to commit crimes.” Among other measures, the party’s platform calls for reducing waiting periods for handgun purchases.In response to the new documentary, One Nation said in a statement that its members always complied with the law. It also called Al Jazeera “a state owned propaganda arm of the Qatari government that supports Islamic extremist groups and are not a legitimate media organization.”In 2017, Ms. Hanson, the party’s leader, sparked controversy by walking into the Australian Senate wearing a burqa as a way of drawing attention to her party’s push to ban full-face coverings in public. The move drew strong criticism from other senators.AdvertisementSupported byBy Sarah MervoshIt took New Zealand just six days to announce an immediate plan to change to the nation’s gun policy after a gunman killed 50 people at two mosques in Christchurch last week.On Thursday, a day after the first victims were laid to rest, Prime Minister Jacinda Ardern announced a national ban on all military-style semiautomatic weapons, all high-capacity ammunition magazines and all parts that allow weapons to be modified into the kinds of guns used in last week’s attack.Ms. Ardern is expected to encounter little resistance in Parliament. The new law could be in place as soon as April 11.It is unclear how the weapons ban will be felt in New Zealand, where there are plenty of guns but relatively few murders. Since 2007, gun homicides have been in the single digits every year except in 2009, when there were 11.But the swift action already stands in stark contrast to the federal response to mass shootings in the United States, which has the highest rate of gun ownership in the world and is one of only a few countries that start with the assumption that gun ownership is a right, not a privilege.After a gunman killed 58 people in Las Vegas in 2017, it took 443 days for the United States to ban bump stocks, the attachments that enable semiautomatic rifles to fire in sustained, rapid bursts, which the gunman used in the attack. And after a mass shooting at a high school in Parkland, Fla., last year led to a wave of student activism, the House of Representatives voted to require background checks for all gun purchasers in February. It was the first significant gun control bill to clear the chamber in a quarter of a century, but it was unlikely to even be taken up in the Republican-controlled Senate.In most countries, mass shootings account for a small proportion of gun deaths. But they are often the political impetus for legislative change that can help prevent other kinds of gun violence, including intimate-partner violence and suicide.Here is a look at how some other countries took action after mass shootings.____Ms. Ardern said the overhauls planned in New Zealand were partially inspired by changes Australia made after a mass shooting there in 1996.After a gunman with a semiautomatic rifle killed 35 people near a popular tourist site in the Tasmanian town of Port Arthur, John Howard, Australia’s conservative prime minister at the time, introduced a federal law to officially make guns a privilege, not a right. Gun owners were forced to provide a valid reason for owning a weapon, such as farming or hunting. Licensing rules were tightened, a 28-day waiting period for gun purchases was imposed and a national gun registry was established.The overhaul also severely restricted firearms, including a ban on almost all automatic and semiautomatic rifles, as well as shotguns. Australia bought back more than 650,000 firearms, to the resentment of many rural gun owners.Australia has not had a shooting as deadly as the Port Arthur massacre since 1996. Research shows the country also saw a decline in homicide and suicide after the legislative change, although researchers disagree about whether the ban can be credited for reducing homicides, which had already been declining.Australia is a much smaller country than the United States and also had fewer barriers to enacting gun control: There is no constitutional right to bear arms, for example, and there are no pro-gun lobbying groups with the influence of the National Rifle Association.____In 1987, a gunman in the southern English town of Hungerford killed 16 people, leading to tough British laws that required shotgun owners to register their weapons and prohibited semiautomatic weapons.Nearly a decade later, another gunman walked into a primary school in Dublane, Scotland, and killed 16 small children and their teacher. The gunman had been granted permits for all four guns used in the shooting, including two semiautomatic pistols.Afterward, the British government took action to limit gun ownership by civilians. By the end of 1997, Parliament had outlawed the private ownership of nearly all handguns.____In 2002, a 19-year-old expelled student returned to his high school in Erfurt, in eastern Germany, armed, and killed 16 people.That year, the German government tightened gun laws, including raising the legal age for carrying sports weapons to 21 from 18 and requiring gun buyers under 25 to present certification that they are medically and psychologically fit.Germany strengthened gun laws even further after another shooting in 2009, when a 17-year-old got his hands on one of his father’s guns and went on a rampage at his school in Winnenden, in southwest Germany, killing 15 people. The new regulations included allowing for random checks on weapons owners.As of 2015, gun-related crimes were far more unusual in Germany than in the United States.____Canada has had tough restrictions on handguns and automatic weapons since the 1930s. But the rules were expanded to include rifles and shotguns after a gunman with a semiautomatic hunting rifle stormed an engineering school in Montreal in 1989.Shouting “I hate feminists,” he separated the women from the men and killed 14 female students before turning the gun on himself.After that shooting, rifles and other long guns had to be registered like handguns and a majority of semiautomatic weapons. Gun owners were also required to obtain a license.But the long gun registry was unpopular in rural and northern areas, and, over the objections of police forces and some provinces, was abolished in 2012.Efforts to keep track of rifle and shotgun sales — the majority of firearms in Canada — continue to be much debated. The province of Quebec introduced its own long gun registry last year.Max Fisher contributed reportingFollow Sarah Mervosh on Twitter: @smervoshAdvertisementSupported byCases like one on the Supreme Court docket this term often lead to more injuries and deaths.By Jonathan M. MetzlDr. Metzl is a professor and the research director at the Safe Tennessee Project.A case before the Supreme Court this term could significantly affect whether densely populated cities like New York have the right to set their own gun policies.At a glance, New York State Rifle and Pistol Association v. City of New York is a limited dispute. It pits residents who have “premises licenses,” which allow them to possess guns only at their homes, against a New York City ordinance that restricts their travel with their weapons to shooting ranges and clubs within city borders. If the petitioners — a gun advocacy group along with three of these individuals — prevail, those with premises licenses will be allowed to take their handguns with them to out-of-town ranges. Not a big deal, right? Actually, it is. The case has implications far broader than sport shooting. If the court decides against the city, New York City and other cities around the country could become far more dangerous places.As a university professor and the research director of a Southern gun violence prevention organization, I’ve spent the past eight years tracking how state and local-level court rulings and legislation promoted as limited in scope lead to sweeping changes in the ways people buy, carry and use firearms. Time and again, I’ve found that seemingly modest relaxation of local gun laws like the one at issue in New York undercut the ability of cities and communities to set their own regulations, and alter ways that people live and die.For instance, in 2007, pro-gun politicians in Missouri repealed a seemingly arcane 1921 law governing the purchase of concealable firearms. Supporters of the repeal (backed by the National Rifle Association) pitched the change as simply easing a tedious and outdated requirement that prospective gun buyers fill out paperwork in person at sheriff’s offices. But this modest action was the first rumbling of an avalanche. Missouri gun proponents built on the repeal to legalize “permitless carry” by anyone 19 years of age or older, nullify local gun-control ordinances, expand “stand your ground” protections and empower citizens to carry weapons into restaurants, bars, streets, schools and seemingly everyplace else. The police even lost the ability to disarm anyone carrying a firearm unless the individual was under arrest. The inability of local government to make gun laws threatened to turn Missouri into the “Wild West,” in the words of an exasperated City Council member in Webster Groves.In Tennessee, N.R.A.-supported politicians pushed through legislation allowing guns in parks. Only after passage did people discover that the law weakened the state’s ability to restrict weapons at concerts and state fairs. A 2017 law in Arkansas permitted guns on college campuses — which made guns legal at Southeast Conference football games and other large sporting events. So-called guns-in-trunks laws in Ohio and some other states allowed employees to store guns and ammunition in their vehicles while at work — followed by jumps in the number of guns stolen out of cars. Sweeping open-carry legislation in Texas meant public libraries could not keep guns out of the stacks.While these changes expand gun rights for certain people, they invariably lead to significant increases in  injuries and deaths. Right-to-carry laws correlate with increases in violent crime and rising homicide and suicide rates, and also raise the likelihood that incidents of conflict like road rage or domestic arguments will turn fatal. For instance, homicides committed with guns in Missouri increased by 25 percent in the three years after the 2007 repeal, and more Missouri guns were recovered in crimes in neighboring states. Gun suicides rose over this period as well. Data from the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention shows that states with the weakest gun laws and highest rates of gun ownership invariably have the highest rates of overall gun mortality. A recent study found that they also have higher rates of mass shootings.Beyond the direct health effects, allowing guns in public spaces changes how we interact with one another. My research shows that people become more wary when they think a stranger might be armed — a mistrust that fuels further gun sales. Racial tensions and stereotypes often accompany this anxiety. “I see white guys walking around Sam’s Club with guns on their hips,” an African-American man in Missouri told me, which he saw as armed racial intimidation.In an ideal world, New York City might serve as a model for effective gun policy. Gun-related injuries and deaths have been falling for the past decade — not coincidentally, over the same period that the city got serious about gun laws. New York has remarkably low rates of gun trauma for a United States city of its size. Municipal and state laws and regulations also effectively limit gun trafficking. Much of this success results from policies that would most likely be in jeopardy should the Rifle and Pistol Association case go against New York — for instance, restrictions on where people can carry guns and prohibitions on tourists’ bringing weapons into the city. Perhaps most important, regulations governing how people carry guns in New York City differ from those applied in parts of the state that have long and respected traditions of firearm ownership, such as in upstate New York.At stake in cases like Rifle and Pistol is the possible nationalization of disastrous policies from pro-gun states — not just loosened gun laws but also pre-emptions of how state or local governments can decide what works best. If the Supreme Court rules in favor of the plaintiffs in any one of these types of cases, the decision could signal that more significant gun control laws might not withstand legal challenges. Additionally, the justices could expand Second Amendment protections beyond the home, an issue left open in previous Supreme Court decisions, and could open the door to overturning longstanding laws governing concealed-carry, gun permitting and other restrictions enacted at the local and state levels.The current composition of the court suggests we should brace for decisions that upend local and state regulations in favor of nationally mandated policies that make it ever easier for people to purchase and carry guns. The nomination of President Trump’s first court appointee, Neil Gorsuch, was buoyed by a $1 million ad campaign by the National Rifle Association. And his second appointee, Brett Kavanaugh, wrote a 2011 circuit court dissent in which he argued that Washington, D.C., could not ban semiautomatic rifles on its streets because the right to bear arms superseded its interest in public safety.Missouri, Tennessee and Washington are not New York City. People are generally not allowed to carry guns around New York City, to safeguard the delicate and at times tense choreography that gives the city its charm. New Yorkers cram into crowded subway cars, brush by one another on busy sidewalks and drive haltingly through traffic-filled streets. This bustle of the everyday builds on often unspoken communal understandings of neighborliness and trust.But imagine a New York where more and more of your neighbors carry guns. If the Supreme Court sides with the complainants in Rifle and Pistol, you won’t need to imagine.Jonathan M. Metzl is a professor at Vanderbilt University and the author of “Dying of Whiteness: How the Politics of Racial Resentment is Killing America’s Heartland.”AdvertisementSupported byBy Simon Romero and Timothy WilliamsALBUQUERQUE — New Mexico’s governor is feuding with county sheriffs, accusing them of going “rogue” by refusing to enforce new gun control legislation. Counties in Oregon are passing militia-backed measures against stricter gun laws. Washington State is warning sheriffs they could face legal action if they don’t run enhanced background checks approved by voters.As states have approved dozens of restrictive gun control measures since the shooting at Marjory Stoneman Douglas High School in Parkland, Fla., last year, efforts to resist such laws have gathered strength around the nation as rural gun owners say their rights are being violated.“This is just a gun-grab measure,” Shane Ferrari, the sheriff of San Juan County, said of a provision that requires background checks on most gun sales in New Mexico, signed into law this month by Gov. Michelle Lujan Grisham, a Democrat.Sheriff Ferrari, a Republican, said he believed that the new law was a violation of the Second Amendment and the state’s existing gun laws, and that he would not enforce it unless a court ruling told him to do so. And all but a handful of counties in New Mexico have expressed similar opposition.The impasses — between local sheriffs and elected officials in states now controlled by Democrats — are raising the specter of a constitutional showdown over enforcement of the new gun laws. Some of the gun rights advocates say they are simply drawing inspiration from strategies employed by liberal critics of the Trump administration: They compare their efforts to declare “Second Amendment sanctuary” counties to so-called sanctuary cities opposing the federal government’s immigration crackdown.“Critics are calling these new laws Gestapo-style tactics when that’s the furthest thing from the truth,” said Victor Snover, the mayor of Aztec, a town in San Juan County that was shaken by a school shooting in 2017 in which a former student killed two students and himself.Mr. Snover, a Democrat who is also a teacher at Aztec High School, called the measure “common sense and reasonable.” He added, “But unfortunately we live in a hyperpartisan time when avoiding tragedies isn’t viewed as reasonable.”In New Mexico and elsewhere, the disputes generally reflect tension between cities that support stricter gun laws and rural areas that want to bolster protections for gun owners. The pushback against new laws generally seeks to maintain existing gun ownership rights; most have not yet been challenged in court.The disputes around the country over the gun control measures raise vexing questions about the rule of law. Governors claim that local sheriffs cannot pick which laws to enforce, but some states have already grappled with low compliance with other gun laws.“There’s a real tension on this issue between urban and rural identities that doesn’t necessarily fit nicely into party loyalties,” said Lonna Atkeson, a political-science professor at the University of New Mexico. She noted that some of the counties vehemently opposing the state’s new gun control legislation are solidly Democratic.Elsewhere, dozens of counties in Illinois have approved “gun sanctuary” resolutions meant to signal local discontent with gun control measures approved by the State Legislature, which is dominated by Democrats.Among the measures approved by Illinois last year was one requiring a 72-hour waiting period for all gun purchases and a so-called red flag bill, which allows relatives and law enforcement officials to ask courts to confiscate firearms from people deemed a threat to themselves or others.In Oregon, where the State Legislature is currently debating several gun control measures — including a bill that would forbid the sale of assault rifles to people under 21 — voters in eight counties have approved ordinances stating that residents have the right to own semiautomatic weapons and high-capacity magazines, even if federal and state law bans them.Some of the most public discontent, however, has come in Washington, where a divide between rural and urban areas has become a recurring political split.In November, nearly 60 percent of Washington State voters approved an initiative prohibiting anyone under 21 from purchasing a semiautomatic rifle and requiring buyers to undergo enhanced background checks. (State law already barred those under 21 from buying a handgun.) Long guns that employ manual operations, including pumps and bolts, could still be purchased at age 18.The law also mandated a 10-day waiting period and completion of a firearms training course. The initiative also allowed prosecutors to charge gun owners with crimes if the gun was stored improperly and someone unable to legally own a gun used it to commit a crime.Most of the law is scheduled to take effect July 1, though the Second Amendment Foundation, a nonprofit group based in Washington State that supports gun rights, has filed a lawsuit seeking to block it.Already, though, more than a dozen sheriffs in Washington have said they will refuse to enforce the law.That has set up a showdown between them and Bob Ferguson, the attorney general.Mr. Ferguson has warned the sheriffs that they have a legal responsibility to enforce the new law in the same manner they are sworn to uphold other laws prohibiting criminal activity.“Local law enforcement officials are entitled to their opinions about the constitutionality of any law, but those personal views do not absolve us of our duty to enforce Washington laws and protect the public,” Mr. Ferguson wrote in a letter last month.But Bob Songer, the sheriff of Klickitat County, a rural county in southern Washington, said that the law violated gun owners’ rights.“There is no way in hell I’m going to be going after their guns if they are honest citizens,” he said. “What I’ve told people is: I’m not giving up my guns, and I don’t expect them to give up theirs.”The sheriff dismissed the pressure from the state’s attorney general to abide by the law.“They are not the boss of the sheriff,” he said. “The only bosses I have are the voters of Klickitat County.”Simon Romero reported from Albuquerque and Timothy Williams from New York.AdvertisementSupported byBy Danny HakimThe flash point was Thomas the Tank Engine.Last September, the National Rifle Association’s famously combative spokeswoman, Dana Loesch, provoked widespread outrage when she took to the gun group’s streaming service to mock ethnic diversity on the popular children’s program “Thomas & Friends,” portraying the show’s talking trains in Ku Klux Klan hoods. Now, growing unease over the site’s inflammatory rhetoric, and whether it has strayed too far from the N.R.A.’s core gun-rights mission, has put its future in doubt.The site, NRATV, is a central part of the organization’s messaging apparatus. Since its creation in 2016, it has adopted an increasingly apocalyptic, hard-right tone, warning of race wars, describing Barack Obama as a “fresh-faced flower-child president,” calling for a march on the Federal Bureau of Investigation and comparing journalists to rodents.In recent weeks, in a rare airing of internal debate at the N.R.A., two prominent board members expressed concerns about NRATV to The New York Times. Their statements were released through the N.R.A. itself, amid what was described as an internal review of NRATV and its future.“Since the founding of NRATV, some, including myself and other board members, have questioned the value of it,” Marion Hammer, the group’s most formidable lobbyist and a key adviser to its chief executive, Wayne LaPierre, said in a statement. “Wayne has told me and others that NRATV is being constantly evaluated — to make sure it works in the best interest of the organization and provides an appropriate return on investment.”The reassessment underscores a debate within the N.R.A. over how broad its activism should be. And it comes as the organization faces a storm of challenges, including a series of mass shootings that has created a new generation of gun-control activists.Congressional investigations into the N.R.A.’s possible Russia ties were energized after Maria Butina, a suspected Russian agent, pleaded guilty in December to using the N.R.A. in a political influence operation. And the organization, incorporated in New York, may have a potent foe in Letitia James, the state’s recently elected attorney general, who has vowed to investigate the N.R.A.’s tax-exempt status.As falling membership dues put the N.R.A. under further strain, board members have also expressed concern about the size of payments to the ad firm that produces NRATV, Ackerman McQueen. The firm and its affiliates pocketed $40 million from the N.R.A. in 2017; billings directly to Ackerman have increased nearly 50 percent since 2015. One prominent host, Dan Bongino, left amid cutbacks at NRATV, but he said the site had tried to retain him.Ackerman, a partner to the gun group  since the “I’m the N.R.A.” campaign of the 1980s, runs the NRATV Twitter account, has done polling work for the organization and revamped its gun safety program for children. It has also been credited with a slick makeover of Mr. LaPierre — who, in the words of one former N.R.A. lobbyist, previously resembled an “introverted chess champion.”Mr. LaPierre’s wife, Susan, has worked for an Ackerman subsidiary, and there has come to be a revolving door between the two companies, with many employees having worked by turns for both NRATV and Ackerman.Oliver L. North, the N.R.A. president, has a contract with Ackerman, though the N.R.A. would not disclose its size. As part of the relationship, Mr. North, a former Fox News pundit, hosts media programming and special events, like the show “American Heroes,” which recently began airing on NRATV.The N.R.A., a nonprofit, has also directed $18 million since 2010 to a private company jointly owned by executives of Ackerman and the N.R.A., according to records and interviews.“It is clear to me that NRATV is an experiment and Wayne is evaluating the future of the enterprise,” Willes K. Lee, a board member who leads the N.R.A. Outreach Committee, said in a statement to The Times.After the Thomas the Tank Engine video, he said, Mr. LaPierre appeared “livid and embarrassed” in a meeting with the outreach group. “He apologized to the entire committee and spent hours listening to our concerns.”Ms. Loesch has emerged as NRATV’s most visible host, deriding gun-control advocates as “tragedy-dry-humping whores” and vowing to combat the left with what she called the “clenched fist of truth” — a body part that the comedian John Oliver said was located “a little past the bent elbow of nonsense.” In one video, she warned The Times, “We’re coming for you”; in another, she threatened to burn a copy of the newspaper.Chuck Holton, an NRATV correspondent, attributed terrorist activity in Europe to “the broader problem of multiculturalism and socialism” and to “gender-bending.” He also claimed that left-wing groups, the billionaire George Soros and the Venezuelan government were trying “to influence the 2018 midterms by sending Honduran migrants north in the thousands.”Grant Stinchfield, a host, claimed that “all radicalized terrorists are Muslims,” overlooking mass shooters like Dylann Roof, who killed nine black churchgoers in Charleston, S.C., in 2015.Such far-ranging commentary has raised questions among some N.R.A. members about the scope of the organization’s messaging.“The N.R.A. shouldn’t be putting this out,” said Jeff Knox, an N.R.A. member who runs the Firearms Coalition, a smaller advocacy organization. “It’s not gun rights; it’s red meat for the hard right.”Mr. Knox’s father, Neal, was an N.R.A. board member who played a leading role in an effort to fire Ackerman in the 1990s amid discontent over its growing influence. A faction loyal to Mr. LaPierre ultimately prevailed, leading to a purge of the board and allowing the two organizations to become more deeply intertwined.“Why are we getting so involved in left-right politics instead of sticking close to our issue, the Second Amendment?” the younger Mr. Knox asked.Ackerman declined to comment, but in a recent interview in The Oklahoman, Revan McQueen, the firm’s chief executive, said his company’s approach was evolving from pure advertising to a “philosophy of branded news.” As Ackerman’s website puts it, “Every brand must be its own media company.”To that end, the firm has created video networks for the Chickasaw Nation and the Integris health care system of Oklahoma, though their content is relatively benign. A recent episode of ChickasawTV, for example, featured a visit to an art gallery. Over on NRATV, a host was calling liberalism “a mental disorder.”Beyond NRATV, the N.R.A. backed Ackerman’s performance.“When Ackerman McQueen began working with the N.R.A., the association was little more than a fledgling grass-roots operation,” Andrew Arulanandam, an N.R.A. spokesman, said in a statement.“The N.R.A. is now the most effective advocacy organization of its kind,” he said, adding that the firm had created “a national platform for the N.R.A.” and that it was “an important partner.”During the N.R.A. power struggle in the 1990s, a board member filed a complaint with the Federal Election Commission, claiming that an N.R.A. contract with an Ackerman subsidiary “was done without any ‘request for proposals’; any bidding process; and no competitive bidding.”The commission decided in a 6-0 vote not to take action, but criticisms have persisted.“The N.R.A. is willing to play fast and loose with tax regulations,” said Marcus S. Owens, a partner at Loeb & Loeb who served for a decade as director of the Exempt Organizations Division of the Internal Revenue Service.Ms. James, the New York attorney general, presents a new threat. Last year, she told Ebony magazine that the N.R.A. held itself “out as a charitable organization” but was actually “a terrorist organization.”William A. Brewer III, the N.R.A.’s outside counsel, said Ms. James had given no indication when she was a candidate that “the N.R.A. had done anything improper,” adding that she had instead promised “a taxpayer-funded fishing expedition.”A number of  transactions could draw scrutiny. Since 2010, the N.R.A. has paid $18 million to a company that produces “Under Wild Skies,” a hunting show on NRATV. Tyler Schropp, the N.R.A.’s advancement director, came to the organization in 2010 from Ackerman, and had a stake in the production company until at least 2017, but “no longer holds any interest,” Mr. Brewer said.Federal rules restrict transactions that confer economic benefits on key executives of tax-exempt organizations.Mr. Brewer described Mr. Schropp’s stake as “a minuscule interest” that the N.R.A. found not to be objectionable. Payments related to “Under Wild Skies” emerged only recently in N.R.A. tax filings.Other issues unrelated to Ackerman could also surface. The N.R.A. has transferred more than $100 million since 2012 from an affiliated charity that also lent the N.R.A. $5 million in 2017. Donations to the charity, the N.R.A. Foundation, are tax-deductible, while those to the N.R.A. are not.“If you’re doing a program that’s charitable, you run it through the charity,” said David G. Samuels, a partner at Duval & Stachenfeld who served in the charities bureau of the New York Attorney General’s Office, which oversees tax-exempt organizations. Such practices raise “red flags,” he said.Like some nonprofits, the N.R.A. has been lucrative for its top executives. Mr. LaPierre’s compensation rose from less than $200,000 in the mid-1990s to nearly $1.5 million in 2017. It spiked to more than $5 million in 2015, largely because of a retirement plan payout.A review of public records found that the N.R.A., which has about 550 employees, has disclosed that 41 employees, contractors, vendors or consultants have relevant family relationships to others connected to the organization, including a “niece-in-law” of Mr. LaPierre who was hired as a consultant.“The N.R.A. strives to comply with all applicable regulations,” Mr. Brewer said, adding that the organization has a “conflict-of interest-policy” and that “vendor agreements are reviewed and approved” by the board’s audit committee when appropriate.With New York regulators circling, it’s no surprise that the state’s politicians have become fodder for NRATV — particularly the governor, Andrew M. Cuomo, whose administration is already engaged in a legal fight with the gun group. Recently, the site even targeted Albany, describing it as “Graft City.”Whatever happens to NRATV, few expect the N.R.A. to become much less combative. Mr. LaPierre, in a speech this month, described the organization’s approach as “full-contact advocacy,” adding, “We are going to fight back against anyone who attempts to silence us.”An earlier version of this article referred imprecisely to Dan Bongino’s separation from NRATV. While he left the video streaming service amid a round of layoffs, it is unclear whether his job was among those eliminated.Susan C. Beachy and Jack Begg contributed research.AdvertisementSupported byBy Mihir ZaveriPeople under 21 are no longer able to buy semiautomatic assault rifles in Washington as of Jan 1. It is the first of several new state measures intended to reduce gun violence. The National Rifle Association has already filed suit.Previously, state law barred the assault weapons’ sale to those under 18. The new rules, approved by voters in a ballot initiative in November, come alongside dozens of moves by other states to strengthen gun control regulations in the absence of federal action.“It is a meaningful step in the right direction,” said Christian Heyne, legislative director at the Coalition to Stop Gun Violence, on Washington’s initiative. “Gun violence on the whole is such a complex problem. We need to have complex solutions, comprehensive solutions. This is a part of that conversation.”In addition to the age restrictions, Washington’s new rules state that gun dealers must wait 10 days before delivering semiautomatic assault rifles they sell. That is designed, in part, to prevent impulsive action. The rules also require anyone buying a semiautomatic assault rifle to have completed a gun safety training in the last five years. The measure also imposes criminal penalties for unsafe gun storage, and requires more extensive background checks for purchases of the assault weapons.Most of the new rules take effect in July.“Every component is extremely important,” said Renee Hopkins, chief executive of the Alliance for Gun Responsibility, the group that sponsored the ballot initiative. “This package really looks to reduce suicide, reduce accidental shootings and also reduce everyday gun violence, interpersonal gun violence, that we see playing out.”The Nov. 6 ballot initiative passed with more than 59 percent of the vote.According to the Giffords Law Center to Prevent Gun Violence, state legislatures in 2018 passed 69 gun control measures, more than any other year since the Newtown, Conn., massacre in 2012, and more than three times the number passed in 2017. They included adding or improving state background checks, increasing regulations for concealed firearms and restricting firearm use for domestic abusers.Opponents of Washington’s ballot initiative said its provisions to safely store guns would make them “unavailable” for self-defense. It also said that banning sale of semiautomatic assault rifles to 18- to 20-year-olds “would leave already vulnerable segments of the population defenseless to attack.” The N.R.A. and the Second Amendment Foundation have filed a lawsuit saying that the age restrictions violate the Constitution.But gun control groups say public pressure has been mounting in response to recent high-profile mass shootings, including the slaughter at a country musical festival in Las Vegas that left 58 people dead and hundreds wounded in October 2017; and multiple shootings in 2018 at schools around the country, particularly at Marjory Stoneman Douglas High School in Parkland, Fla. In that shooting, a 19-year-old man killed 17 people with an AR-15 semiautomatic rifle in February.Mr. Heyne said Washington’s move, while not unique, is a “bellwether” for what could happen in the rest of the country.Gun-related deaths are increasing. The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention reported in December that the nearly 40,000 people who died from firearms injuries in the United States in 2017 was more than any other year since at least 1968. Nearly two-thirds of those deaths were suicides. The rate of gun deaths also increased to 12 deaths for every 100,000 people, the highest since the mid-1990s.Some states like California and Connecticut have near-total bans on assault weapons, according to the Giffords Law Center. Assault weapons, generally thought to be more lethal, have been used in deadly mass shootings like those in Parkland, Las Vegas, Newtown and San Bernardino, Calif.A New York Times analysis published in February found that 173 people have been killed since 2007 in mass shootings involving AR-15s. Yet they don’t make up a large chunk of gun violence in America, Mr. Heyne said.Ms. Hopkins said that existing laws already ban the sale of handguns to those under 21, and that the age change for semiautomatic assault rifles seeks to make the law consistent for the different type of firearms.Gun control figured heavily in the 2018 election, as gun control groups outspent the N.R.A. Congress has generally failed to pass any meaningful legislation. A federal ban on the manufacture of certain “assault weapons” took effect in 1994. It expired in 2004.No attempts to reinstate the federal assault weapons ban have been successful. In December, the Trump administration banned bump stocks, attachments that enable semiautomatic rifles to fire in sustained, rapid bursts.Gun rights organizations have succeeded in blocking other proposals at the federal level. And they are vowing to fight the states as well.“The N.R.A. will fight to overturn this unconstitutional initiative,” Chris W. Cox, executive director of N.R.A.’s Institute for Legislative Action, said of the Washington law, when the lawsuit was announced. “We will not sit idly by while elitist anti-gun activists attempt to deny everyday Americans their fundamental right to self-defense.”The N.R.A. did not respond to a request for comment Wednesday after the law took effect.“The gun lobby is trying to thwart the will of nearly 60 percent of Washingtonian voters who supported common-sense gun reform in our state,” Bob Ferguson, the state attorney general, said in a statement Wednesday. “We were not surprised the gun lobby filed a lawsuit. I look forward to representing the people of the State of Washington in court against the N.R.A.”Follow Mihir Zaveri on Twitter: @MihirZaveri.AdvertisementtranscriptHosted by Michael Barbaro, produced by Clare Toeniskoetter and Alexandra Leigh Young, and edited by Lisa Tobin“It’s hard to differentiate what’s from the shooting and what’s from regular teenage anxiety.” Four students who survived the massacre at their high school told us how it had changed them.Thursday, February 14th, 2019michael barbaroFrom The New York Times, I’m Michael Barbaro. This is “The Daily.” Today: It’s been one year since the shooting at Marjory Stoneman Douglas High School in Parkland. “Daily” producer Clare Toeniskoetter went to Florida this week to check in on some of the students we met last year. It’s Thursday, February 14.clare toeniskoetterLast year, a few weeks after the Marjory Stoneman Douglas High School shooting, my colleague Jack Healy went down to Parkland and interviewed a group of freshman girls who were in the first classroom that the shooter went into, classroom 1216.studentI’ve thought about this, about being in a school shooting. And the one thing that I’ve always said that I would do is text my mom, “I love you,” and, like, “Thank you for everything.” And I was so mad at everything that I wasn’t going to be able to get to do that, and I was going to die and not let my mom know that I loved her.clare toeniskoetterAnd in that classroom, these girls saw eight of their classmates get shot.studentAnd then I just hear a few shots happen over here. And then I see Alyssa, and she’s just standing like this. And then she, like, falls back.clare toeniskoetterAnd three of them were killed. So Jack interviewed the girls, but I was the producer working on “The Daily” episode. And over the past year, I just haven’t stopped thinking about them. I’ve thought about them each time there’s been another mass shooting. I’ve thought about them on election night. And I thought about them just pretty much every time I’ve seen a group of teenagers. So as we approach the one-year anniversary of the shooting, I wanted to check back in with them.flight attendantPlease take a moment to locate the zone on your boarding pass.clare toeniskoetterSo I flew down to Florida, got the group back together at one of their houses. They grabbed a few snacks. And they all settled in on a couch.clare toeniskoetter (to the students)Tell me who you each are.jadeI’m Jade.clare toeniskoetterJade. And Jade, how old are you?jadeUh, 15.maddieI’m Maddie and I’m 15.clare toeniskoetterMaddie.brookeI’m Brooke and I’m 15.clare toeniskoetterBrooke.edenEden and I’m 15.clare toeniskoetterAnd Eden.clare toeniskoetter (to the students)And you’re about to turn 16?edenYep.clare toeniskoetterAnd they immediately just started talking about the last time they were all here together in the same room.edenI feel like it’s like after you see somebody in a movie, and it’s during something, and then you know when they have the 10 years later, and they cut their hair, and they — I feel like that now.jadeI mean, I did change my hair. [LAUGHTER]edenI feel like a different person than who I was when I was last sitting here.clare toeniskoetterWhat do you think you felt like then? What do you feel like now?edenI feel like now, I don’t know, in a way I feel burnt out a little, just like — I feel like I’ve been through hell. Like hell.maddieThis year has been exhausting.edenAnd at that moment, I feel like I was so innocent.clare toeniskoetterWhat were those first weeks back like? So it was about halfway through the school year. And what was a typical day like? Did it feel like normal school at all?brookeNo. Being together was the only good part about that.edenIt was weird. Because the setting was different. And then it was just that feeling in the room.jadeThat emptiness.edenIt’s like, oh my God, the kid who sat there died.clare toeniskoetterWas there ever a day when it felt normal, ever, like in your whole last school year?brookeIt kind of never feels normal. We have a new normal, I feel like. My normal is seeing the 1200 building every day and having flashbacks and then moving on.jadeOr like, oh, that happened.brookeExactly.edenAfter three months, I would say, is when it wasn’t all we thought about all the time. Like that wasn’t the feeling I had.jadeLike, summer was a good —maddieSummer was a good time.clare toeniskoetterYeah?maddieYeah, I’m not going to lie.jadeSummer was like, I was at my happiest.maddieWe were finally away from the building every day.clare toeniskoetterI wasn’t sure if summer would feel good or bad, being — because then you don’t have that built-in support group. But were you — did you stay with other Douglas students enough during your summers?brookeAll of our friends and stuff like that completely understand. At least for me, I talk about it with them all the time. And I for sure feel like I can trust them more than I can a therapist. Because they understand me and they know me. So it’s a lot more personal.clare toeniskoetterSo your friends who were also in school.jadeYeah, exactly.edenI don’t talk about it with anyone. Like, no one. I just can’t.clare toeniskoetterNot even friends?edenNot even my closest friend. It’s really hard for me to talk about it, because my closest friends, most of them weren’t in the building. And it’s just like, what is it going to help me to talk about it? They’re going to feel bad for me, and then what?clare toeniskoetterHow’s it feel right now?brookeI think it’s different when there’s someone in the building. Because all of my friends that weren’t, they feel like they can’t even talk to me about their day, because they don’t want to make me feel bad that they’re talking about it — which, like, that sucks, because I want my friends to be able to talk to me about it. Like, I have no problem with people who weren’t in the building talking. Just don’t act like where I was and where you were is the same thing. That’s my only thing.edenDon’t even try to compare it. It’s just like, it’s different.maddieIt’s different. It’s very, very different.brookeIt’s completely different.clare toeniskoetterShifting into the new school year, how did it feel coming back?maddieI hated it.edenIt was awful.clare toeniskoetterYeah?jadeIt was just like, oh, like, oh.brookeWe’re back here?clare toeniskoetterSo one of the things, from my understanding about going back to school last year, is everyone who was at the school was there on the day of the shooting. But then when you came back to school this year, for this new school year, there’s now a new class. There are freshmen who weren’t there. What is that like?maddieNot good.clare toeniskoetterWhy?brookeThe thing is, some of them are actually very nice and very understanding and accept the fact that they don’t know anything about it and they’re not going to ask, because they know it’s disrespectful. And then the other half are just —maddieWish that they were there.brookeJust wish they were there and are trying so hard to get attention from it, in any way possible.maddieThey post pictures of the building. [INTERPOSING VOICES] Like, you’ve never even —edenHave photoshoots.brookeAnd they think it’s funny.maddieYou’ve never even been in the building. How are you going to post a picture of it?jadeUnless their sibling was at open house, I don’t know.brookeBut they think it’s funny. And they’re dropping textbooks, popping things.maddieOh, my god.brookeLike, someone that has serious PTSD could be right next to you.clare toeniskoetterWait, so they are walking through the halls and making loud noises, dropping textbooks. [INTERPOSING VOICES]brookeThey do it in their classes all the time, for fun.jadeI was taking a math test — it’s a thing.clare toeniskoetterThat’s so cruel.maddieOne of them, after the pep rally, I was walking back to class to portables, and we were right in front of the freshman building. And one of them popped a water bottle right in back of me. Right in front of the freshman building.clare toeniskoetterSo it’s more than just one nasty kid. It’s a lot of them.maddieThey just don’t have — they’re not considerate. They don’t know what they’re doing.brookeThey don’t give empathy to the situation.maddieThey don’t think about it.brookeExactly. And it might be because they don’t really understand. But if you don’t understand, then just don’t do anything. Don’t try to be funny, because it’s not funny.clare toeniskoetterYeah. It’s so — hearing you as sophomores talk about the freshmen, like, there’s this dynamic in any high school experience of feeling like, now I’m older and I hate those freshmen. But of course, it’s completely different for you.brooke— this whole separation, this whole divide.edenThere’s a line.maddieI have no issue with them on any other problem, except for the shooting.brookeAnything else, I don’t even really care.clare toeniskoetterYeah. What do you think is the ideal? What, if you were a freshman this year, what do you think would be the best way?edenJust don’t talk about it.studentJust be respectful.brookeDon’t act like you know anything about it. Because you don’t. [INTERPOSING VOICES]edenDon’t bring it up. Ever.maddieDon’t talk about it like you know what we went through.brookeThey don’t know anything.maddieBecause I know that you were scared and you didn’t know what was going on.clare toeniskoetterBecause a lot of them were next door in the middle school and got evacuated. But they weren’t —edenIt was different.jadeIt was really scary for them. But for us, it’s terrifying.brookeIt’s just different.clare toeniskoetterYeah.brookeI heard it right in my ear, in the hallways. So don’t act like it’s the same.clare toeniskoetterDoes all of this, does it make you feel older?edenI feel like I’m, like, a 90-year-old woman.brookeI feel like we didn’t really — we kind of fast-tracked. [INTERPOSING VOICES]maddieYeah, telling stories about her life.jadeAnd I feel really bad for —brookeI feel bad celebrating my birthday sometimes.edenI feel bad getting my license. I feel bad —brookeWhen they can’t —clare toeniskoetterMilestones. Every milestone feels —edenIt’s really hard.brookeI just feel so guilty.jadeJust getting up every day. Sometimes.brookeLike, they’re supposed to be here. Like, that whole thing wasn’t supposed to happen.maddieYou gotta talk about it.brookeI kinda feel like our childhood got ruined.jadeIt did, yeah.brookeI feel like it’s not there anymore.maddieLike, our high school, everybody says high school is the best time of your life, along with college. But we don’t get that.edenBut it’s not because it’s consuming our lives.maddieYeah. It’s never going to be like that anymore. It’s never going to be like, oh, it’s high school.brookeLike, no cares in the world.edenWhen your parents are like, oh, when I was in high school, this. It’s like, when I was in high school, all I can think about would be the shooting.jadeYeah.edenIt’s hard to differentiate what’s from the shooting and what’s from regular teenage anxiety. Because everybody has anxiety. Everybody. So for me, it’s like, I’ll get those times where I’ll feel like there’s literally — I’m just like, I can’t, I can’t. And I don’t know if it’s from the shooting, and I don’t know what it’s from.brookeIt’s a combination of things, not just [INAUDIBLE] the shooting.edenThat sets the basis for it.maddieSometimes the stress of the shooting has a big impact on regular teenage stresses. So it’ll make your normal teenage stresses more stressful.edenEven more dramatic.clare toeniskoetterBecause you guys are all 15, about to turn 16. So what’s going on in your lives outside of this? You’re about to get driver’s licenses.jadeYeah, exactly.maddieSchool.clare toeniskoetterDating.maddieI mean, right now in life we’re worried about next year. Next year’s going to be our junior year, which is, like, the most important year.clare toeniskoetterCollege.jadeDefinitely, I’m thinking about that the most.maddieStarting to think about colleges, which is scary, but —edenSo scary.maddieSo scary.brookeAnd I’m really scared to apply to colleges, because I don’t want to be accepted just because I’m a Douglas kid. Like, I don’t want that to be the reason why —edenI don’t want that to be my —brookeI get above someone else.eden— the definition of who I am.brookeExactly. I don’t want to look good to your college just because I was in the shooting.edenI just feel like time’s going by so fast.jadeIt really is. I can’t believe it’s almost been a year.edenIt’s crazy.jadeAnd that’s what I’m scared of.brookeI feel like it was, like, yesterday.edenThat, to me, is crazy.jadeLike, I relive it every day, for me at least.maddieI think because we’ve just been living in it this whole year, it just hasn’t gone away. It’s not something that —jadeLike, it surrounds. When I look back on the person I was exactly a year ago from today, she would have not acted like this at all. She would have been a completely different person.clare toeniskoetterYou think you were fundamentally changed?jadeYeah, definitely.brookeYeah. I think everyone is. I don’t think anyone can mentally be the same after what we went through.edenIt’s a part of you.brookeExactly.jadeSometimes I’ll think about when I’m 20, I’ll think about, like, oh, that happened — what would that be? Seven years ago. Like, that’s scary.maddieYeah. I think about when —jadeIt’s been that long.maddie— we have kids, how are we going to send our kids to school?brookeIt’s so hard for me to want to have kids in a place like this.maddieHow are we going to have kids and send them to school like that?brookeI’ve wanted kids my whole life. But I don’t know if I want them anymore.edenIf my kid will have to go through what I went through, I’d just feel so bad.brookeIt makes me not want to have kids. And I’ve wanted kids my whole life.maddieObviously, in the very, very, very far future.brookeNo, yeah. Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah.maddieWe’re talking about kids in the way future.edenActually, six more months. [LAUGHTER] [MUSIC]maddieI always say this. I always say this. Everybody who goes through mass shootings don’t go to the site of the mass shooting every single day and see the building where it happened every single day. We do.brookeA part of me kind of wants to go in.maddieI want to go in so bad.edenI want to go in so bad. I still do.maddieI think we all agreed in 1216 —brookeIt would give us nice closure.maddie— that we want to go in. [INTERPOSING VOICES]edenLast year, we were saying we all — I still want to go in.jadeAt the same time, I don’t want to see that.brookeLike, I want to —maddieI just want to see how they left it.jadeYeah, that’s what I want to see. I want to grab my English binder. [LAUGHTER]edenThere’s just something so curious about how we went there every single day. I was in that building every single day.brookeI had, like, four classes in there.jadeI had two.edenIt’s so weird to me.clare toeniskoetterWhat do you think you would do if you could go in?jadeOh, I’d go in, just walk.maddieI would just walk. [INTERPOSING VOICES]clare toeniskoetterTogether?jadeThe first thing I’d do is go in our classroom.maddieI’ve had dreams about —edenMe, too.jadeI don’t want to see the blood stains.brookeI have it kind of engraved of a thought with just, like, Valentine’s stuff everywhere.maddieOr backpacks. Well, I guess we’re going to see it. We’re going to see it when the trial happens.clare toeniskoetterYou’ll be able to go in?maddieNo, we’re not going to be able to go in. But we’ll see pictures.clare toeniskoetterYou’ll see photos.brookeI still want to see it for myself.maddieI know. [INTERPOSING VOICES]brookeHas anyone had time travel dreams or anything like that?maddieWe sound like literal psychopaths right now. We sound like psychopaths.jadeWe sound insane.clare toeniskoetterTime travel dream?brookeBecause I — it’s a recurring nightmare dream I have. I don’t really have anything about going forward. But I always have this dream where I’m able to go back to that date, and I try to warn people. And I try to warn Alaina, because she was my closest friend in that class. And she won’t listen to me. No one will listen to me.edenI had that, too. And I remember I had a dream, and I showed Alyssa my tattoo, because I have a tattoo.clare toeniskoetterWhat’s your tattoo of?edenIt has the room number on it.clare toeniskoetterDo you all have them?brookeNo.edenAnd I remember I was, in my dream, I was showing her. I was showing her in my dream. And she was, like —maddieThree hearts for them?edenNot believing me. And I was like, look, I’m telling you, there was a shooting. Don’t go to class. And she went anyways.jadeI would have just, like, kidnapped her at the front, like, you’re coming with me.edenI didn’t know you got a tattoo.clare toeniskoetterCan you tell me what they both are?maddieYeah. So mine is, the top is the date in Roman numerals, 2-14-18. The second layer is the three hearts for Alex, Alyssa and Alaina. And the third layer is 1216, which is our classroom number.clare toeniskoetterAnd what’s yours?edenAnd then mine is, like, a flower, which is kind of, if you see, there’s leaves on it. And that represents the growth from what happened. And then there’s the room number, 1216, and then there’s three little flower petals things, for Alaina, Alex and Alyssa.maddieMakes me feel close to them. I love that.edenI like it. But some days, I’m like, I wish I didn’t have to get this tattoo. Like, I hate how it’s part of, it’s permanent. And so is the shooting. It’s permanent on you. [INTERPOSING VOICES]brookeThe thing is, I’m always going to think of it, and I want that there.maddieYeah, I think the significance of getting something permanent on you is that just like the tattoo, the shooting is going to be with you for the rest of your life.brookeFor the rest of your life. [MUSIC]edenFor, like, three months after the shooting, I would always be searching up videos of the shooting and watching them over and over.brookeSame, same, same.clare toeniskoetterWhy? [INTERPOSING VOICES]edenBecause I needed, I needed that closure. I needed to actually see that was real.brookeI think that’s why a lot of us want to go in the room. We just want closure. Because I have no closure on anything.edenAll we have is our memory. And that’s not as reliable, to me, as a picture. [INTERPOSING VOICES]brookeAnd that’s going to fade.clare toeniskoetterDo you think you’ll ever have closure?edenNo.brookeProbably not.edenMaybe.clare toeniskoetterHow could you have?maddieHopefully.edenThe building. The videos.brookeLike, I want to have closure. But I don’t know if it’s attainable.edenI think after the actual videos of it happening, I would love to see that.jadeI started —clare toeniskoetterAnd that exists, in some —edenI think it will.brookeThey exist.edenThey have videos.jadeI’ve seen a picture.maddieThe hallway.jadeBut that’s it.maddieWell, I watch everything that comes out. Everything that comes out, I watch. Every article that comes out about it, I watch. Because I like to know everything that happened. Even though I know, I just don’t — I’d just like to —edenThey don’t have the proof of it.maddieBecause then I don’t look like an idiot telling my story, like, oh, yeah.clare toeniskoetterIt’s validating.maddieYeah. [MUSIC]clare toeniskoetterWhat are you planning on doing this Thursday?maddieCemeteries. More cemeteries. Vigils. I’m going to two cemeteries.jadeAre you going to Alyssa’s?maddieI’m going to — is Alex buried there?edenYeah, they’re right next to — they’re right, literally so close to each other. I went to Alyssa’s, and I saw Max there. And I went to go see, and it was literally right next to it.maddieIs his headstone up?edenYeah.brookeI want to visit Alaina’s, but —maddieI haven’t seen since his.jadeWait, where’s Alaina’s?brookeI don’t know where Alaina’s is.maddieI’m going to Martin’s and I’m going to Luke’s, which are both in the same — [SIGH]clare toeniskoetterAnd you don’t have school on Thursday. Friday is optional?maddieOptional.jadeI mean, both of them is optional.maddieYeah.brookeThey’re both going to be there, but like —clare toeniskoetterYou’re able to go and do service projects. Is that right? Are any of you going to go into school on Thursday?maddieNo. I can’t. I couldn’t even stay for the rest of today.edenYeah, today was hard.maddieI had to leave after third.edenI left early and came late.jadeAre you going tomorrow?maddieNo. I can’t. I physically, like, starting on Monday, I walked into school and I couldn’t.jadeI feel like if I don’t, like, I don’t want to be at home thinking about it.edenYeah. I don’t want to be home by myself.jadeOh, yeah, I know.edenI don’t like that.maddieI’d rather be home than there.brookeThe thing is, I’ve already — I have so much makeup work.jadeI feel like I have to go to school. It’s so bad.brookeI have so much makeup work because I’ve gone early for so many days, because of everything just being too much. And I feel like I can’t miss any more school because the amount of things I have to make up is insane.maddieTomorrow is not going to be an academic day at all.brookeIt is.jadeYeah. I’m learning a lesson in math.brookeI have things planned in bio.jadeAnd I have homework over the weekend. And a test next week in there.brookeSame. [MUSIC]clare toeniskoetterWhat do you think that people get wrong about you? What do you think people should understand about you who were in the classroom?maddieSomething that I’ve always wished that the media knew is that — what we went through, other than the politics. Not everything’s about March for Our Lives. And whereas March for Our Lives is great, and the fact that they can make a change is amazing. But we have stories that are worth being told. And I think that —edenAnd are worth hearing.maddieAnd I think that the media is just so quick to politicize everything, because that’s what makes everything a story. But not everything’s political, and we’re actually going through something that’s real. And really bad.edenAnd it’s happening.maddieYeah, and it happened to us.brookeAnd it happened when we were, like, 14 or 15.edenThat’s what’s so amazing about what the March for Our Lives kids did. But now over time, it’s obviously getting less of a national discussion, less important in our conversations right now.jadeLess vital.edenWhich is upsetting.brookeI feel like another thing, too, is — especially with a bunch of news stations and stuff like that — because I feel like a lot of people forget. And I wish people knew that just because the cameras went away and people aren’t writing about it as much does not mean that the issue went away. Like, people are still depressed. People are still having panic attacks and anxiety attacks. And there are still people that can’t go throughout the day without breaking down because of this. And they didn’t just like, poof, when the camera stopped reporting them or their interview ended — nothing stopped.clare toeniskoetterWhat do you hope comes out of someone knowing that, of fully understanding your story of being in the room?maddieFor me, it’s more about memorializing them and remembering them. Because that’s what matters. To me, that’s what matters, is to keep —edenTo make sure their names aren’t forgotten.jadeTo keep them alive.maddieBecause they didn’t deserve to die. And they’re not here to share their stories.brookeBut we can do that for them. And I think that’s the only reason that —jadeIn a non-political way.brooke— exactly — is that we just want their name to be there forever. They didn’t go away. They’re going to be there with us in our memories as long as we live. And we, as the people who survived it, can bring their memory to life to other people and to show them how amazing they were. They didn’t meet them. But we hope that by telling you how smart Alaina was, by telling you how kind Alex was, by telling you how funny Alyssa was, that you can understand.clare toeniskoetterI think you guys have done a wonderful job honoring them.studentsThank you. Thank you all for talking to me. [MUSIC]maddieI want to take a picture of all of us. Like, a mirror selfie.edenOoh, right now?clare toeniskoetterI can take one of you guys, if you want.maddieNo, it’s O.K. It’s better like a mirror.edenFor Snapchat.jadeOr Instagram.brookeO.K., so there’s two options here with mirrors. [INTERPOSING VOICES]Listen and subscribe to our podcast from your mobile device: Via Apple Podcasts | Via RadioPublic | Via StitcherIt’s been a year since the shooting at Marjory Stoneman Douglas High School in Parkland. We went to Florida this week to check in on some of the students we met 12 months ago.On today’s episode:Clare Toeniskoetter, a producer for “The Daily,” spoke with four students who survived the shooting.Background coverage:“I feel broken, I feel defeated. Right now on my mind, it’s not going to be fine.” Three weeks after the shooting, a group of Stoneman Douglas High School students spoke to a Times reporter on “The Daily.” Listen here.In a series of interviews, nine members of the Stoneman Douglas community — students, parents, police, teachers — reflected on the past 12 months. Parkland students became leaders of the movement for gun control and traveled the country registering young people to vote. Here’s a look at the impact they made.Tune in, and tell us what you think. Email us at thedaily@nytimes.com. Follow Michael Barbaro on Twitter: @mikiebarb. And if you’re interested in advertising with “The Daily,” write to us at thedaily-ads@nytimes.com.AdvertisementFollow Us:Get the Upshot in your Inbox

      By MARGOT SANGER-KATZ and 
    
QUOCTRUNG BUI

MARCH 27, 2019

.229mm.45In Boston from 2010 to 2015, there were 221 gun homicides.Research suggests that one change could have lowered that number by 40 percent: smaller bullets.A study last year, published in JAMA Network Open, examined the type of weapon used in every fatal and nonfatal shooting in the city. It found that  —  regardless of the time of day, the number of wounds or the circumstances of the crime —  the size of the bullet affected which gunshot victims lived and which ones died. Effect on homicide rate if all wounds had been from guns with a ...At the center of the debate about gun control lies the question of whether the availability of deadly weapons increases the seriousness of crime. Critics of gun control contend it doesn’t. As the popular bumper sticker argues: “Guns don’t kill people. People kill people.” The study set out to test that slogan -- and found it wanting.“The type of weapon matters,” said Philip Cook, an emeritus professor of public policy at Duke University, and one of the study’s co-authors.If all the shooters in Boston had used the types of guns in circulation with the biggest bullets, the homicide rate could have been 43 percent higher, the researchers calculated recently, even with the same people committing exactly the same crimes.Criminal shootings in Boston, 2010-2014Over recent decades, the size of bullets fired by the typical handgun has increased. Changes in design have made it easier to fire big bullets from concealable weapons, and manufacturers have marketed more powerful guns as better tools for self-defense. In the 1970s and 1980s, the guns most commonly used in crime tended to be revolvers or small, inexpensive pistols that fired .22-caliber rounds, so-called for their 0.22-inch diameter.a .22-caliber round2 cm.1 cm.But regulations meant to reduce crimes committed with these cheap, disposable guns, sometimes called “Saturday night specials,” pushed them out of gun stores. And advances in gun technology caused a new generation of weapons to hit the market — and eventually the streets. The newer guns, which started to become common in the 1990s, were semi-automatic. They could fire multiple rounds more quickly, and tended to be able to store more bullets in their magazines, meaning they required less reloading in long shootouts.And instead of buying guns that fired smaller bullets, people started purchasing ones that fired rounds that were 9 millimeters wide, about 0.35 inches, then 0.40 and 0.45 inches.a 9mm-caliber round2 cm.1 cm.Guns that fire big bullets used to also be big. But improvements in technology have meant that large-caliber weapons are now available as pistols that can be more easily carried and hidden.These advances, intended for the legal self-defense market, have spread to the criminal one, too. Although data about the guns owned and used by criminals is imperfect, evidence suggests that criminals’ buying preferences are not substantially different from that of the general public. A recent study of guns used by criminal gangs, also in the Boston area, found that gang members paid the most for large-caliber semi-automatic pistols, which they often bought secondhand at prices much higher than those paid by legal purchasers in gun stores. Police seizures of guns in other cities, including Chicago, also show a growing share of large-caliber handguns.a .45-caliber round3 cm.2 cm.1 cm.“In general, the criminals who are using guns in crime do want the higher-caliber, more lethal weapons, and want the newest and sexiest,” said Roseanna Ander, the founding executive director of the Crime Lab at the University of Chicago. “But there is a big markup, and they sometimes can’t get them.”A foundational statistical study in 1972 looked at detailed crime records in Chicago and first documented a relationship between weapon type and outcome. Franklin Zimring, a professor of law at the University of California, Berkeley, said he had been surprised to see so much similarity in the circumstances between fatal and nonfatal shootings. What made the difference, he said, appeared to be some combination of luck, aim and the weapon involved.Mr. Zimring called that paper “The Medium Is the Message,” but said he had been urged to title it “The Bigger the Bullet, the Bigger the Hole.” In the decades since, little has been done to replicate its results. The police don’t always collect information about the caliber involved in shootings. Detailed data about all the particulars of nonfatal shootings is particularly rare.But when Anthony Braga, the director of the school of criminology and criminal justice at Northeastern University, and Mr. Cook learned that Boston’s Police Department was collecting information about caliber as part of an effort to improve its homicide clearance rate, they decided to retest that earlier thesis. It took five years of shootings for the researchers to collect enough data to draw firm conclusions.Bigger rounds can have their drawbacks for shooters, particularly when loaded into compact handguns. Because the bigger ammunition tends to fire with more explosive power, the .40- and .45-caliber handguns that some Boston criminals were using can have strong recoil that can make them hard to handle or to aim subsequent shots. The trade-off between caliber and aim is, in part, why the F.B.I. and many police departments carry 9-millimeter guns rather than larger alternatives. But accuracy seemed a less important consideration for the Boston criminals in the data the researchers examined. Unlike police shootings, most of the shootings in the sample involved a single bullet wound.“Their aim is terrible, fortunately,” Mr. Cook said. “A lot of these cases are drive-bys or cases where you just wouldn’t expect that there’s any sharpshooting going on.”If people are determined to kill someone, will they find a way? Critics of the study’s conclusion contend that the choice of gun itself can be an expression of a criminal’s intent.“As far as I know, everyone in the field believes bigger-caliber handguns are more lethal than smaller-caliber handguns — it's a nonissue," said Gary Kleck, a professor emeritus of criminology at Florida State University, in an email. But he said the study failed to take into consideration that a larger gun might signal a more determined killer. "The authors' implied claim that lethality of the shooter's intent has no effect on victim death is bizarre."There are no serious current proposals to regulate or limit the sale of handguns by caliber size. A recent anonymous survey of gun researchers by the nonpartisan RAND Corporation found that the field remains divided on the question of how much weapons matter in crimeIt’s true that the era of larger-caliber handguns has also been an era of declining violent crime. Homicides in most major American cities peaked in the early 1990s, just before larger-caliber pistols became common. The homicide rate has fallen nearly by half since then. But the research about weapon caliber suggests it could have dropped by even more.AdvertisementSupported byBy Tiffany HsuDick’s Sporting Goods, one of the largest firearms retailers in the United States, is moving further away from selling guns, even as the shift takes a toll on its earnings.On Tuesday, Dick’s said that it would strip firearms and other hunting products from 125 of its stores and replace the merchandise with batting cages, ski apparel and other sports gear. If the switch is successful, as it was at 10 stores where it was tested starting in the fall, it will be expanded, the company said.The latest move to scale back gun sales is becoming a familiar one for the company and its chief executive, Edward Stack.Last year, after 17 people were killed in a shooting in Parkland, Fla., Mr. Stack learned that the suspect, Nikolas Cruz, once bought a gun from Dick’s. That firearm was not used in the attack, but Mr. Stack realized it could have been.Shaken by the link, Mr. Stack, a longtime gun owner, introduced measures that made it harder to buy firearms at Dick’s stores, and he pressed Congress to adopt gun-safety measures. He aligned himself with gun-control activists; was shunned by gun sellers, buyers and firearms industry employees; and became one of the most cited names in a gun debate increasingly crowded with corporate voices.He appeared at conferences with Laurence D. Fink, the chief executive of BlackRock; Mark Bertolini, a former chief executive of Aetna; and other executives with strong opinions on gun control. In the process, Mr. Stack became a model for business leaders wading into contentious social issues.But  his outspoken approach may have put pressure on his company, which sells much more than guns. In announcing its earnings on Tuesday, Dick’s said adjusted same-store sales fell 3.1 percent in the 12 months that ended Feb. 2 from the comparable period a year earlier.In the fourth quarter, which included the holiday shopping season, adjusted same-store sales were down 2.2 percent. Net income for the quarter fell to $102.6 million, or $1.07 a share, from $116 million, or $1.11 a share in the year-earlier period.Public reaction to the policies Dick’s introduced after the Parkland shooting was a “meaningful driver” in the declines, Mr. Stack said in a conference call with analysts on Tuesday. Intensifying competition from Amazon was another, analysts said.The company, which is based in the Pittsburgh area, said it expected its sales for this year to range from flat to a 2 percent increase.In trading on Tuesday, Dick’s shares fell 11 percent from the previous close. But the stock, adjusted for dividends, is up more than 10 percent since Mr. Stack decided to remove AR-15-style and other semiautomatic rifles from the company’s Field & Stream stores soon after the Parkland shooting. Stores operating under the Dick’s logo had already stopped selling such weapons after the 2012 shooting at Sandy Hook Elementary School in Newtown, Conn., in which 26 people, including 20 children, were killed.Both chains stopped selling guns and ammunition to customers younger than 21 last year. The company includes 729 Dick’s Stores, 94 Golf Galaxy stores and 35 Field & Stream stores.Mr. Stack, whose father started Dick’s in 1948, said in a recent interview that the company had “been in the gun business basically since inception.” Gun demand broadly, he said, is “under pressure” and is “going to continue to be under pressure.”Firearm sales, according to an estimate from the Small Arms Analytics & Forecasting research firm, slumped 12.4 percent in February from a year earlier, to 1.1 million units.The drop “certainly appears to validate the ongoing challenging market conditions,” James Debney, the chief executive of American Outdoor Brands, said this month. The company, which owns the Smith & Wesson firearms brand, announced a $5.7 million loss in its third quarter, causing its stock to plunge.Interest in hunting has been on a steady decline in the United States for decades. Mr. Stack said in the interview that the hunting category had “deteriorated” for Dick’s in recent years.In the 10 stores where hunting products were not selling well and were replaced with other merchandise, sales improved during the test, Mr. Stack said on the call on Tuesday. If the expanded trial “goes as well as expected, we’d probably take another batch of stores next year,” he said.Mr. Stack said the shift was meant to make Dick’s stores more “productive.” But Camilla Yanushevsky, an analyst with the research firm CFRA, said that phasing out hunting products was “largely a sign of solidarity with Parkland victims, as well as a form of social activism.”The Parkland shooting inspired other companies to embrace gun safety activism.Delta Air Lines, MetLife and  others cut ties with the National Rifle Association after the attack. Citigroup and Bank of America placed restrictions on gun industry clients. In November, a group of pension funds and other investors circulated a list of guidelines for gun companies with the goal of improving transparency and safety.“It is up to the private sector to continue this conversation,” Mr. Stack said in the interview, “however slowly it moves.”But gun rights advocates have resisted corporate involvement in their cause.Months ago, American Outdoor Brands shareholders unexpectedly won a vote that asked the company to address the risks associated with its products and gun violence. Last month, the company wrote in response that its “reputation as a strong defender of the Second Amendment is not worth risking for a vague goal of improving the company’s reputation among noncustomers or special interest groups with an anti-Second Amendment agenda.”Some of Dick’s 45,000 employees felt the same about Mr. Stack’s decision to restrict gun sales, with 62 resigning over the last year, he said. The National Shooting Sports Foundation voted to expel Dick’s from its membership. Manufacturers like O. F. Mossberg & Sons stopped selling to the chain, although Mr. Stack said Dick’s still had access to Mossberg products through distributors.Mr. Stack also said he had received some threats and had increased security measures meant to protect him and the company. But he said he had no plans to curb his gun-safety efforts.He recently signed an open letter supporting universal background-check legislation that last month became the first major gun control measure in decades to pass the House. Along with executives from Levi Strauss and RXR Realty, he became one of the first members of a business council organized by Everytown for Gun Safety, a major gun safety advocacy group. He is looking into smart gun technology now being developed, calling it “helpful from a gun violence standpoint.”“People in the gun business are not terribly happy with us,” he said. “They said we were toxic, which is fine with us; we’re not going to change the way we’re going.”Follow Tiffany Hsu on Twitter: @tiffkhsu.AdvertisementSupported byGood Thursday. (Want this by email? Sign up here.)Guns Down America, a gun-control advocacy group, has graded 15 banks based on their support for the gun industry, Tiffany Hsu of the NYT reports. Most received dismal appraisals.• “Six of the banks, including JPMorgan Chase and Wells Fargo, received failing grades. Citigroup earned the highest one, a B.”• The group used a 100-point scale that weighed factors like “a bank’s loans to and investments in gun makers” and “discounts and deals it offers to N.R.A. members.”• Citi got an 84. JPMorgan got a 48. BB&T, the lowest-ranking bank on the list, got a 20, in part for loans and financing that it arranged for gun makers like Smith & Wesson.• “We’re not interested in shaming banks or running a campaign focused on how evil they are,” Igor Volsky, the group’s executive director, told Ms. Hsu. “Our end goal is to change the way banks make decisions when doing business with the gun industry.”• Ms. Hsu writes that “several banks contacted for comment said that they had not been consulted and that the group had relied on arbitrary metrics.”Carlos Ghosn was arrested for a fourth time today, as prosecutors hit him with new charges of using company funds for personal ends. The former Nissan chairman claims that it’s part of an effort to silence him.This time, he was accused of using a Nissan subsidiary in Oman to send millions of dollars of payments to one of the carmaker’s foreign business partners, which then passed it on to a company Mr. Ghosn controlled.Mr. Ghosn did this three times between 2015 and 2018, resulting in $5 million in losses to Nissan, according to prosecutors.He may be held in solitary confinement for at least 20 days, the FT reports, citing unnamed people close to his family. It adds that it is highly unusual in the Japanese legal system for someone released on bail to be rearrested.Mr. Ghosn blamed “some individuals at Nissan” for his “outrageous and arbitrary arrest,” saying they were attempting “to silence me by misleading the prosecutors.” He had tweeted yesterday that he planned to hold a news conference next Thursday to tell “the truth about what’s going on.”That tweet and arrest raise an interesting question: Did he violate the terms of his bail, which restrict his internet access?Cybersecurity researchers have found data about hundreds of millions of Facebook users stored publicly by a third party on Amazon’s cloud servers, according to Bloomberg.• “In one instance, Mexico City-based digital platform Cultura Colectiva openly stored 540 million records on Facebook users, including identification numbers, comments, reactions and account names. The records were accessible and downloadable for anyone who could find them online.”• “In the Cultura Colectiva dataset, which totaled 146 gigabytes, it was difficult for researchers to know how many unique Facebook users were affected.”• The researchers also “ had trouble working to get the database closed.”• “A Facebook spokesperson said that the company’s policies prohibit storing Facebook information in a public database. Once it was alerted to the issue, Facebook worked with Amazon to take down the databases.”It has been over a year since the Cambridge Analytica scandal showed how widely Facebook had shared user data with third-party app developers. The social network began to audit that data-sharing last year, but the research report shows the struggle the company still faces.More: Facebook is paying the British newspaper The Telegraph to publish sponsored articles that play down concerns about its practices. New research suggests that its algorithms target ads by race and gender even when advertisers request a broad audience. And have Mark Zuckerberg’s tech regulation proposals been treated unfairly?President Trump is expected to meet China’s trade envoy, Liu He, in Washington later today. That could be a sign of progress on some of the sticking points surrounding a potential deal, according to Bob Davis of the WSJ.The U.S. and China have been at odds over tariffs imposed on $250 billion of Chinese goods. Washington sees them as a way to ensure that China sticks to the deal; Beijing wants them removed as soon as it’s signed. China has few other hard demands, and U.S. businesses have urged the Trump administration to remove the tariffs.There could be workarounds. The U.S. trade representative, Robert Lighthizer, has “been using the tariff issue to push for another U.S. priority — that China agree to a no-retaliation clause in a trade deal,” Mr. Davis reports. The plan, which could let the U.S. unilaterally impose levies on Chinese goods if China does not comply, could “help him persuade Mr. Trump to approve the agreement and lift a substantial amount of tariffs.”“Mr. Trump is looking to announce on Thursday the date of a summit with Mr. Xi,” an unnamed Trump administration official told Mr. Davis. “That’s a big signal the two sides are on the cusp of a deal, trade experts say, and a resolution of the tariff issue.”But “the situation is fluid, and plans could change,” the official added.Senator Ron Wyden, the top Democrat on the Senate’s tax-writing committee, has an idea that could radically change how America taxes the 1 percent, according to the WSJ.Mr. Wyden proposed taxing gains in asset values annually, at the same rate as other income. Gains are currently taxed only when investors sell an asset, and at a top rate of 23.8 percent, rather than the 37 percent for ordinary income.The senator said his plan would “eliminate serious loopholes that allow some to pay a lower rate than wage earners, to delay their taxes indefinitely, and in some cases, to avoid paying tax at all.”Challenges to the plan include how to value gains in complex assets, how to handle declines in value, and how to apply it to illiquid holdings like real estate.The proposal “is a breathtakingly terrible idea,” Sen. Pat Toomey, Republican of Pennsylvania, told the WSJ.President Trump’s aversion to regulation and his go-it-alone nationalism are wavering in the face of technology questions, Steve Lohr of the NYT reports.• “In September, the Trump administration abandoned its hands-off approach and began working closely with the 36-nation Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development to create international guidelines for the design and use of artificial intelligence.”• “The administration has also started to discuss a new law to protect privacy in the digital age, seeking consensus domestically and common ground internationally. It has fielded more than 200 public-comment filings from advocacy groups, corporations and individuals.”The administration has “moved from indifference to engagement,” Julie Brill, a former commissioner at the Federal Trade Commission who now helps oversee regulatory affairs for Microsoft, told Mr. Lohr.“The shift is a pragmatic recognition that regulations that will affect the nation’s tech industry and its citizens are coming, and that if federal officials want a say in them, they must participate,” Mr. Lohr writes.The race to give citizens superfast wireless data networks reached a conclusion yesterday. But there’s no clear consensus on which city is the world’s first to enjoy 5G, the WSJ reports.• “Verizon launched 5G wireless service in parts of Chicago and Minneapolis on Wednesday, a week ahead of its planned start date, while carriers in South Korea deployed their service in the Seoul metropolitan area the same day.”• “It is unclear which country struck first. South Korea’s large carriers, which had eyed a Friday start, hustled to switch on 5G services at 11 p.m. local time. Both SK Telecom Co. and KT Corp., the two largest operators, claimed to have the world’s first 5G smartphone subscribers. Verizon said its customers in those two cities were the first.”The development of 5G has become politically charged. America and China, in particular, see it as a means of asserting technological prowess. And the battle has entangled the Chinese telecom company Huawei, with America and others declaring its 5G hardware a risk to national security.Expect to hear more about the race.Condй Nast has hired Roger Lynch, the former chief executive of Pandora, as its new C.E.O.PG&E confirmed that it has appointed 10 new directors, including Nora Mead Brownell, a former commissioner of the Federal Energy Regulation Commission, and Jeffrey Bleich, a partner at the law firm Dentons.Zeina Bain, one of the Carlyle Group’s most senior female deal makers, has left for a competitor, ICG.Apple promoted its M.&A. chief, Adrian Perica, by having him report directly to Tim Cook instead of the company’s C.F.O.Deals• The radio giant iHeartMedia filed to go public yesterday, though it hasn’t decided between an I.P.O. and a Spotify-like direct share listing. (NYT)• Nearly 20 percent of Lyft’s shares have been lent to short-sellers as part of bets they’ll fall in price. It’s now the most expensive American stock to short. (DealBook, Business Insider)• SoftBank is reportedly in talks to raise $15 billion more for its Vision Fund. (Bloomberg)• The consulting firm Accenture agreed to buy Droga5, one of the big independent advertising agencies. (NYT)Politics and policy• The arrest of a Chinese national carrying malware at Mar-a-Lago shows how hard it is for a presidential home to double as a moneymaking business. (WaPo)• The chairman of the House Ways and Means Committee formally requested six years of President Trump’s tax returns, while the House Intelligence Committee has asked for documents related to his inauguration. (NYT)• Senate Republicans resorted to the “nuclear option” of limiting debate on presidential nominations for federal courts and administrative posts to speed up confirmation of Mr. Trump’s picks. (NYT)• Some of Robert Mueller’s investigators have told associates that Attorney General William Barr’s summary of their findings underplayed troubling conclusions about President Trump. (NYT)Boeing• Ethiopian investigators said that the pilots of the Ethiopian Airlines flight that crashed followed proper guidance. (NYT)• Some pilots said that Boeing should have provided more instructions for disabling the anti-stall software suspected in the two crashes. (WSJ)• The family of Ralph Nader’s niece, who was killed in the Ethiopian Airlines crash, plans to sue Boeing. (NYT)• Boeing hasn’t halted 737 Max production despite the global grounding of the Max 8 model. (Bloomberg)Brexit• Prime Minister Theresa May and the opposition leader, Jeremy Corbyn, have begun talks to devise a Brexit deal that could garner cross-party support. (NYT)• Parliament passed a bill to force Mrs. May to seek a further delay to the process and avoid a no-deal Brexit. (FT)Tech• Tesla delivered 63,000 vehicles in the first quarter — fewer than expected and down 31 percent from the fourth quarter of 2018. (NYT)• A.I. experts have called on Amazon to stop selling its facial-recognition technology to law enforcement because it’s biased against women and people of color. (NYT)• Australia passed a law threatening huge fines for social media companies that fail to take down “abhorrent violent material” rapidly. (NYT)• MIT is cutting ties with the Chinese tech giants Huawei and ZTE over security risks. (FT)• Google will now require suppliers to provide their workers with benefits, including parental leave and minimum wages. (Wired)Best of the rest• Has the yield curve predicted the next recession — or are its warnings being overplayed? (FT)• Six women have sued Jones Day, one of the world’s largest law firms, for pregnancy and gender discrimination. (NYT)• A report by BlackRock says that investors underestimate extreme weather risks. (FT)• China’s stimulus plan might be working. (FT)• Much of the U.S. is experiencing a Japan-style decline in working-age residents. (Upshot)AdvertisementSupported byBy Kate TaylorPeople on opposite sides of the debate about guns apparently can’t agree on anything these days — not even the meaning of a string of pearls.On Tuesday, liberal activists expressed outrage at a group of male New Hampshire legislators who wore pearl necklaces at a committee hearing. Shannon Watts, the founder of a gun control group, Moms Demand Action for Gun Sense in America, posted an image of the lawmakers, all Republicans, on Twitter and accused them of mocking her group’s volunteers and others who were testifying.Male New Hampshire lawmakers on the hearing committee wearing pearls to mock @MomsDemand volunteers and gun safety advocates. #NHPolitics pic.twitter.com/rc1S3Bj9lGThe intended message of the pearls wasn’t entirely clear, though one interpretation was that the lawmakers were trying to paint members of the group as “pearl clutchers” — suggesting that they were being overly sensitive. People responding to the tweet attacked the men pictured, calling them bullies and their behavior malicious and cruel.Two Democratic presidential hopefuls, Senators Cory Booker and Kamala Harris, weighed in on Twitter in support of Moms Demand Action, which is an arm of Everytown For Gun Safety, the gun control group financed by Michael Bloomberg. “These moms are fighting to confront gun violence and protect our children,” Ms. Harris said. “They don’t deserve to be mocked.”But a different narrative soon emerged: Kimberly Morin, the president of a gun rights group that also attended the hearing, told The New Hampshire Union Leader that her group had distributed the pearls. The hearing was over a proposed “red flag” bill, which would allow courts to temporarily take away guns from people found to be an immediate risk to themselves or others.In an interview on Wednesday, Ms. Morin said the pearls were not meant to mock anyone, but had for years been a symbol for her group, the Women’s Defense League of New Hampshire, which offers firearms training to women as well as advocating gun rights.“She’s lying,” Ms. Morin said of Ms. Watts, the founder of Moms Demand Action. “That’s my comment — she’s lying.”For her part, Ms. Watts said Ms. Morin’s group was backing away from the necklaces’ original intent. “It started out meant to mock Moms Demand Action volunteers,” she insisted.Ms. Morin traced the origin of the symbolic pearls to 2015. After a hearing that year on a bill to allow people to carry concealed guns without a permit, an anonymous Moms Demand Action volunteer was quoted as saying that many potential opponents of the bill didn’t testify because they were intimidated, Ms. Morin said.“People really don’t like to come and stand in front of a ‘firing squad’ — a group of people with guns,” the volunteer told WMUR, a local television station.Ms. Morin said her group found the statement absurd. That day, some in her group were dressed in business suits — and as it happened, pearls — hardly the attire of a “firing squad.” It was that sequence of events that led the group to make pearls their signature, she said. (The bill was ultimately signed by Gov. Chris Sununu in 2017 at a ceremony rife with pearl necklaces.)New Hampshire has among the least restrictive gun laws in the country, and support for gun rights is strong. Democrats took control of both chambers of the legislature in November and are now pushing a package of bills aimed at setting limits on guns, including bills requiring background checks for commercial gun purchases, creating a waiting period between the purchase and delivery of a gun, and allowing school districts to create gun-free zones.The bills face considerable odds, given that Mr. Sununu, a Republican, has expressed opposition to any changes to the state’s gun laws, a position his spokesman reiterated on Wednesday.AdvertisementSupported byBy Catie EdmondsonWASHINGTON — The House this week is set to pass the first major gun control legislation in over two decades, with Democratic lawmakers expected to approve two measures strengthening background checks for all firearms sales.The last time the House put high-profile legislation expanding gun control laws to a vote was in 1994, when it passed the Federal Assault Weapons Ban and made it illegal to manufacture a number of semiautomatic weapons for civilian use. That legislation expired after a decade and was not renewed by a Republican-controlled Congress.But riding a new wave of urgency after a series of mass shootings — and the activism inspired by the school massacre in Parkland, Fla., last February in which 17 students and teachers were killed — House Democrats have pledged to take meaningful action on the issue, beginning with the twin bills.Here’s what you need to know about the measures and their odds in the Senate.The Bipartisan Background Checks Act, which the House will take up on Wednesday, requires universal background checks, closing a loophole for buyers at gun shows and online. The legislation, sponsored by Representative Mike Thompson, Democrat of California and the chairman of the House Gun Violence Prevention Task Force, also prohibits firearms transfers by a person who is not a licensed dealer. There are a number of exceptions, though, such as a family member giving a firearm as a gift, or lending a gun to someone in imminent danger.The second piece of legislation, the Enhanced Background Checks Act, will be voted on Thursday. Sponsored by Representative James E. Clyburn of South Carolina, the majority whip, the bill seeks to extend the initial background check review period to 10 days from three.Under federal law, the F.B.I. has three business days to perform its review and determine whether there is sufficient evidence to deny a purchase. If it is unable to do so, on the fourth day, the customer can return to the dealer and buy a gun. That loophole allowed Dylann S. Roof, the man who killed nine people at a historically black church in Charleston, S.C., in 2015, to purchase a .45-caliber handgun even though he had previously admitted to drug possession, which should have barred him from legally obtaining the weapon.A vast majority of guns used in 19 recent mass shootings — including those in Newtown, Conn.; San Bernardino, Calif.; and Las Vegas — were bought legally and after the gunman passed a federal background check. At least nine attackers had criminal histories or documented mental health problems that did not prevent them from obtaining their weapons.“The new gun control restrictions currently being considered by the Democratic majority in H.R. 8 would not have prevented my shooting,” Representative Steve Scalise of Louisiana, the Republican whip, said of the Bipartisan Background Checks Act. Mr. Scalise was gravely wounded in 2017 when a gunman fired on members of the Republican congressional baseball team while they were practicing in Virginia.But gun control advocates have praised the measures as a meaningful step toward change, and described the legislation as a necessary foundation for future work. Last year, the existing background check system identified and denied 88,000 gun sales to prohibited buyers including criminals and domestic abusers, according to Mr. Thompson’s office — but those same people are currently able to make purchases at gun shows or online.“We have fairly weak gun laws and we have loopholes that make it easy to have the levels of gun violence that we have right now, and we certainly have to do more to address it,” said Robin Lloyd, the managing director of the Giffords Law Center to Prevent Gun Violence. “But it is a critical first step.”The bills introduced by House Democrats closely mirror the last major attempt in the Senate to pass a gun control measure. Efforts led by Senator Patrick J. Toomey, Republican of Pennsylvania, and Senator Joe Manchin III, Democrat of West Virginia, to require background checks at gun shows and online failed in the Democratic-led Senate in 2013 and again in the Republican-led Senate in 2015.Otherwise, in the last two decades, most firearms legislation taken up by Congress has aimed to relax gun laws, such as attempts in the House and Senate to pass a concealed-carry reciprocity law allowing a person permitted to carry a concealed weapon in one state to carry it in every state.AdvertisementSupported byBy Catie EdmondsonWASHINGTON — The House voted on Wednesday to require background checks for all gun purchasers, including those at gun shows and on the internet — the first significant gun control bill to clear the chamber in a quarter of a century.The 240-to-190 vote is the first of two gun control measures expected to be put to House lawmakers this week, a turning point in gun legislation after 25 years when the National Rifle Association dominated the chamber. Last year’s massacre at Marjory Stoneman Douglas High School in Parkland, Fla., prompted a wave of student-led activism that pressed Democrats to unite around gun control, and the activists cheered when the measure cleared the 218-vote threshold for passage.The Democratic victory was tempered, however, after Republicans prevailed in adding a provision that would require the F.B.I. to alert Immigration and Customs Enforcement if an undocumented immigrant tried to obtain a firearm. Twenty-six Democrats, primarily from moderate or Republican-leaning districts, broke party lines to support the measure.But Speaker Nancy Pelosi of California and other Democrats insisted that would ultimately have little import.“Finally, we have done more than thoughts and prayers. Finally, we have taken a vote to expand background checks and help save lives,” said Representative Mike Thompson, Democrat of California, who leads the congressional Gun Violence Prevention Task Force.“For six long years, we worked on this issue, and the previous majority would not even let us have a hearing, let alone a vote to expand background checks,” Mr. Thompson said. “Today is a new day, and the show of support on both sides of the aisle for this important legislation is humbling.”More than 100 student activists, gun violence survivors and advocates — clad in a sea of orange scarves, ties and blazers to denote their support for the legislation — looked on from the House gallery as lawmakers advanced Mr. Thompson’s legislation, the Bipartisan Background Checks Act. It seeks to close loopholes that allow individuals to buy firearms on the internet or at gun shows without having to pass a background check.“We’ve been working toward this legislation for over a year now,” said Laura Kirk, 18, and a founder of a Students Demand Action high school chapter in Virginia. “It’s incredible to see our work translate into tangible results.”The Democrat-led House is expected to pass legislation on Thursday that would extend the amount of time the F.B.I. has to conduct background checks of gun purchasers, to 10 business days from three. It is an attempt to close the so-called Charleston loophole, which allowed Dylann Roof, the white supremacist who killed nine people in 2015 at a historically black church in Charleston, S.C., to buy a handgun even though he should have been barred from purchasing the weapon.It is “unlikely” that either measure will be taken up in the Republican-controlled Senate, Senator John Thune of South Dakota, the No. 3 Republican, said on Tuesday. House Republicans have flatly condemned both pieces of legislation, arguing the measures would be both ineffective and infringe on law-abiding citizens’ rights.The House bill that was approved on Wednesday “is taking the fears and concerns of a nation over gun violence and perpetrating a fraud on them,” said Representative Doug Collins of Georgia, the top Republican on the Judiciary Committee. “The reality is nothing in this bill would have stopped Parkland, or stopped any of the other violence we have seen.”Gunmen at the center of a number of high-profile mass shootings passed background checks and legally purchased the firearms they used. But gun control activists have praised both background check measures as a critical first step in a broader drive to reduce gun violence.“America’s current background check system is like having two types of security lines at the airport: one for people who are willing to be screened, and one you can waltz right through carrying whatever you want,” said John Feinblatt, the president of Everytown for Gun Safety. “We applaud the House for moving so quickly.”Once divided on the issue, House Democrats returned to the majority, promising meaningful action on gun control, with aid from advocacy groups backing candidates who made the issue central to their campaigns. Michael Bloomberg, the former mayor of New York, spent around $100 million in the midterms last year to elect gun control supporters, according to Everytown.The group will continue its push this week with $400,000 in digital ads urging lawmakers to support the legislation as it tries to break through the Senate.One of the new freshman Democrats supported by Mr. Bloomberg, Representative Lucy McBath of Georgia, had a 17-year-old son, Jordan, killed by gun violence.“Turning her grief and her tragedy into action and courage, to run for Congress, to stand on this floor and share her personal story with us — that takes real courage,” Ms. Pelosi said from the House floor, adding that the statistics of gun violence victims “spell out the story, but it is the human, personal stories that change minds.”Wednesday’s vote, Ms. Pelosi said, sends “a clear message to the families of those who have lost their loved ones to gun violence, that we have crossed a threshold here today to reduce gun violence in our country.”The Republican measure attached to the bill would present a problem if a version of the gun bill cleared the Senate. The measure has angered liberals in the House, who would like to see it removed in House-Senate negotiations.AdvertisementSupported byBy Catie EdmondsonWASHINGTON — The House voted Thursday to extend the time allotted for the F.B.I. to conduct background checks for gun purchasers flagged by the national instant check system, the second major gun control bill to clear the chamber this week after two decades of inaction.Democratic leaders also succeeded in quelling a small rebellion among freshman Democrats from Republican-leaning districts, persuading them to oppose a politically freighted Republican procedural motion after they backed a similar motion on Wednesday.The 228-to-198 vote aims to extend the background check review period for gun purchasers to 10 days. Currently, the F.B.I. must perform its review and determine whether there is sufficient evidence to deny a purchase in three business days. If it cannot complete the review within that time, a buyer may return to the dealer on the fourth day to purchase a firearm.That provision in current law allowed Dylann S. Roof to purchase a handgun and kill nine people at a historic black church in Charleston, S.C., in 2015, even though he should have been denied his firearm.“Let’s give the F.B.I., the authorities, enough time to do their job and save lives,” Representative James E. Clyburn of South Carolina, the majority whip and the bill’s sponsor, implored his colleagues from the House floor.Both gun control bills that cleared the House this week face dim prospects in the Senate, but they were cause for celebration for the gun-control activists that mobilized last year after a series of horrific mass shootings.While Thursday’s bill was expected to easily clear the Democrat-controlled chamber, a dose of drama was added after House Republicans staged a successful ambush during the vote on the first gun control measure on Wednesday.In an attempt to divide Democrats and draw out vulnerable swing-district members, Republicans offered a provision that would require the F.B.I. to alert Immigration and Customs Enforcement if an undocumented immigrant tried to obtain a firearm. Twenty-six Democrats broke party lines to support the measure, catching Democratic leadership caught off guard.House Republicans tried a repeat ambush on Thursday, surprising Democrats with a last-minute motion to exempt victims of domestic abuse from the new 10-day waiting period. This time, following strict marching orders from Speaker Nancy Pelosi, the motion failed, with only two Democrats, Representatives Jeff Van Drew of New Jersey and Collin C. Peterson of Minnesota, voting for the measure.“Vote no, just vote no, because the fact is a vote yes is to give leverage to the other side and surrender leverage on the floor of the House,” Ms. Pelosi told reporters on Thursday.At a meeting of House Democrats before the vote, Representative Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez of New York implored moderates to vote against the Republican-led motions and, in an implicit threat, added that she would make it clear to liberal activists which members supported the Republican measures, according to officials in the room.But some moderate freshmen, including Representative Xochitl Torres Small of New Mexico, stood up and explained how difficult the votes have been for them.House Republicans have sought to weaponize the procedural motion, using politically fraught measures to test the new Democrats’ resolve. The measures rarely hold the force of law, but a no vote even on a procedural motion could show up in a 30-second attack ad next year. Republicans succeeded in attaching a resolution condemning anti-Semitism and the boycott-Israel movement to a bill designed to halt American aid to Saudi Arabia’s war in Yemen after even Democratic leaders gave up on opposing it.“All they want to do is feed red meat to their base,” Representative Veronica Escobar, Democrat of Texas, said of House Republicans. “I’m hoping that colleagues of mine will see it that way and understand that these procedural motions — even the best-worded procedural motion — has not had the chance to go through the process” of committee consideration.Amid concern that some Democrats will continue to break away on tough votes, some House leaders are weighing revising the rules to require Republicans to give them more notice on the content of procedural motions.Representative Joe Cunningham, Democrat of South Carolina, who has voted for Republican-backed motions, played down their importance on Thursday.“These little motions and minor bills should not take attention away from the fact that progress is being made to keep people safe,” said Mr. Cunningham, one of the co-sponsors of Mr. Clyburn’s gun control bill.Ms. Pelosi signaled that she was not keen to change the rules, but added that it could be a topic for consideration by a select committee studying potential changes to “modernize” the House.“I am a big believer in respecting the whole House and the rights of the minority to have their say,” Ms. Pelosi told reporters.The “Charleston loophole” bill did show some of the old divisions that have plagued Democrats in the past over gun control. Seven Democrats voted no, including freshmen Anthony Brindisi of New York, Jared Golden of Maine, Kendra Horn of Oklahoma, Ben McAdams of Utah and Ms. Torres Small of New Mexico, all of whom won Republican districts in November.Only three Republicans voted yes.AdvertisementSupported byBy Tiffany HsuGun control activists have spent years trying to limit the number of assault-style firearms available to civilians: holding rallies, drafting proposed laws and backing campaigns by shareholders of publicly traded gun makers.Now, one advocacy group is focusing on a different pressure point: the consumer banks that provide loans and other financial support to the gun industry.The group, Guns Down America, which formed in 2016 after a mass shooting in Orlando, Fla., has created a ranking system that gives 15 banks letter grades based primarily on their ties to firearms makers and trade groups like the National Rifle Association.Six of the banks, including JPMorgan Chase and Wells Fargo, received failing grades. Citigroup earned the highest one, a B.Igor Volsky, Guns Down America’s founder and executive director, said he hoped the grading system would compel banks to be more publicly supportive of gun control measures, in the same way that many companies have taken positions on gay rights, immigration and other social issues.Part of the mission, he added, is stopping “the Wild Wild West of how gun manufacturers both produce military-style weapons and also how they can market those firearms.”“We’re not interested in shaming banks or running a campaign focused on how evil they are,” Mr. Volsky said. “Our end goal is to change the way banks make decisions when doing business with the gun industry.”The group used a 100-point scale that applied different weights to factors like a bank’s loans to and investments in gun makers; its public statements about gun safety; its support for lawmakers backed by the N.R.A.; and the discounts and deals it offers to N.R.A. members.The basis for the grades was publicly available information gathered from media reports, regulatory documents, campaign finance filings and other sources. Any undisclosed updates to gun-related deals, legal complications that might affect those arrangements and internal discussions were not reflected.Guns Down America said it had shared its methodology and individual grades with all 15 banks and was involved in continuing talks with some of them, but several banks contacted for comment said that they had not been consulted and that the group had relied on arbitrary metrics.In the last year, gun safety groups have begun looking more closely at the firearms industry’s corporate ties, with the scrutiny leading some businesses to make changes.After a mass shooting in Parkland, Fla., Delta Air Lines, Hertz and several other companies broke with the N.R.A., and retailers like Dick’s Sporting Goods made some guns harder to buy. Influential Wall Street figures like Laurence D. Fink, the chief executive of BlackRock, publicly embraced gun safety efforts.In March, estimated firearm sales in the United States slipped 12.6 percent from a year earlier, to nearly 1.4 million units, according to the research firm Small Arms Analytics & Forecasting.The financial industry’s connections to gun makers have drawn attention before. In December, The New York Times reported that many of the mass shootings in the last decade had been financed with credit cards.[Read out how banks unwittingly provide financing for mass shootings.]Some banks have already started to revise their policies and practices on firearms. Citigroup, which earned a score of 84 from Guns Down America, said in March 2018 that it would work only with clients that agreed to certain restrictions on firearm sales.A short time later, Bank of America said it would stop lending to companies that made military-inspired firearms for civilian use. It was subsequently criticized for its commitment to contribute $43.2 million in bankruptcy financing for Remington.Bank of America, which did not respond to a request for comment, got a C from Guns Down America.The six banks that received failing grades all had more than $200 million in recent financial arrangements with gun companies, according to Guns Down America.The group gave JPMorgan Chase a 48, finding that it had contributed $21,000 to politicians strongly supported by the N.R.A., and had a $273 million financing arrangement with Vista Outdoor. Guns Down America did not specify whether the money was directed only to Vista’s gun business, which the company had said it plans to sell.Marianne Lake, JPMorgan’s chief financial officer, said last year that the bank’s links to military-style firearms “have come down significantly and are pretty limited.” JPMorgan declined to comment on the Guns Down America grade.BB&T was last on the Guns Down America list. Its score of 20 was partly a result of its arranging $147 million in loans to the industry from 2012 to 2016 and partly a result of its recent involvement in a $78 million revolving credit line for Smith & Wesson, according to the gun control group.Brian Davis, a spokesman for BB&T, said the bank was “deeply concerned with the increasing amount of gun violence in our schools and communities,” and listened to “a wide range of opinions” on gun control. He said the bank did not comment publicly about its financial relationships.Guns Down America found that Wells Fargo, which fared slightly better at 25 points, had extended $471 million in loans and credit to gun makers since 2012, including a $40 million loan to Sturm Ruger last year. The N.R.A. also uses Wells Fargo, and the bank donated $92,000 to a group of lawmakers supported by the trade group, Guns Down America said.Trisha Schultz, a Wells Fargo spokeswoman, said in a statement that the bank planned to invest more than $10 million over three years in studying gun-violence prevention and in improving school safety. The bank, she said, has “a small and declining relationship with the N.R.A.”But Ms. Schultz added that “changes to gun laws and regulations should be determined through a legislative process that gives the American public an opportunity to participate and not be arbitrarily set by a bank.”“We do not believe that the American public wants banks to decide which legal products consumers can and cannot buy,” she said.Because of an editing error an earlier version of this article misidentified whose links to military-style firearms “have come down significantly and are pretty limited,” according to Marianne Lake, JPMorgan’s chief financial officer. Ms. Lake was referring to the bank’s links to such firearms, not Vista Outdoor’s links.Follow Tiffany Hsu on Twitter: @tiffkhsu.AdvertisementSupported by An innovative technology calculates the optimal time to talk about reform.By Pat Kelly, Chris Kelly, Lauren Bercovitch, Michael Tanko Grand and Taige JensenAdvertisementSupported byBy Sheryl Gay StolbergWASHINGTON — Emboldened House Democrats, seeking a politically charged debate on gun control, unveiled legislation on Tuesday to expand background checks to nearly all firearms purchases, a move timed to mark the eighth anniversary of the mass shooting in Arizona that nearly killed former Representative Gabrielle Giffords.By introducing the measure less than one week after taking control of the House, Democrats are signaling that it is a top priority. A vote could come within the first 100 days of the new Congress. The measure, and a companion bill introduced Tuesday in the Senate, also reflects the changing politics around gun laws, an issue many Democrats once shied away from.The bill, which will almost certainly pass the House but will face a steep climb in the Republican-controlled Senate, would require background checks on the purchases of nearly all firearms, including those sold at gun shows and over the internet. There would be limited exceptions, including for law enforcement officers and for guns transferred between close family members.Polls have shown that a vast majority of Americans — by some estimates, 90 percent — support universal background checks for all gun purchases. Many Democrats, including Representative Lucy McBath, a freshman from Georgia whose son was shot and killed at a Florida gas station, were elected last year after promising to address gun safety.“Today we take a decisive step to help save lives right away,” said Representative Mike Thompson, Democrat of California and the bill’s chief sponsor, adding, “From public polling to the ballot box, the American people have spoken up and demanded action.”By limiting the bill to background checks — and keeping out other provisions such as a ban on assault rifles or high-capacity magazines — gun safety advocates hope to pressure Republicans on a policy that has broad public support. In the Senate, Mitch McConnell of Kentucky, the majority leader, will have to decide whether to bring up the bill. In the House, Republicans will be forced to vote on it.“It will show us who’s with us and who’s against us,” said Patricia Maisch, 69, who survived the Jan. 8, 2011, mass shooting in Tucson that killed six and grievously injured Ms. Giffords.But by narrowing the bill so dramatically, Democrats may also limit its utility. Suspects in many recent high-profile mass shootings — including those in Pittsburgh; Parkland, Fla.; Thousand Oaks, Calif.; Las Vegas; and Sutherland Springs, Tex. — had passed background checks when purchasing their weapons.Even modest gun law changes rarely make it through Congress. The measure is similar to one written by Senators Joe Manchin III, Democrat of West Virginia, and Patrick J. Toomey, Republican of Pennsylvania, in response to the mass shooting that killed 20 children and six adults at Sandy Hook Elementary School in Newtown, Conn., in 2012. That bill, pressed hard by President Barack Obama and the parents of Sandy Hook victims, fell to a bipartisan filibuster in 2013 in a Senate controlled by Democrats.Then as now, the National Rifle Association opposed the measure.“So-called universal background checks will never be universal because criminals do not comply with the law,” said Jennifer Baker, a spokeswoman for the powerful gun lobby. She noted that the gunman who shot Ms. Giffords passed a background check. His name did not come up in the federal database even though he had mental health issues.The Democrats’ measure was unveiled at a news conference featuring Speaker Nancy Pelosi of California, Mr. Thompson, who helped write the House companion bill to Toomey-Manchin in 2013, and Ms. Giffords, as well as gun safety advocates and victims of gun violence from around the country. Mr. Thompson escorted Ms. Giffords, who as a former member is still permitted on the House floor, into the chamber so she could formally drop the bill into the “hopper” — the bin, located on the rostrum, where all legislation has its start.Ms. Giffords, 48, a Democrat who once opposed gun control, was shot in the head during a constituent meeting she was holding in a supermarket parking lot. Those who died included a 9-year-old girl and a young staff member for Ms. Giffords; 13 were injured, including Ms. Giffords, who suffered a serious brain injury that makes conversation difficult.“It’s been a long, hard haul, but I’m getting better,” Ms. Giffords told reporters at a breakfast Tuesday, reading from a prepared statement. She said she was still undergoing “speech therapy, physical therapy — and yoga, too.”Current law requires only federally licensed gun dealers to perform background checks. Gun safety advocates say the law is riddled with loopholes that allow felons, domestic abusers and others who would ordinarily be prohibited from buying guns to purchase them through private sales, including online and at gun shows.For gun safety advocates and victims of gun violence, Tuesday’s bill introduction represents an important shift in Washington after a year of devastating massacres, including the mass shooting at Marjory Stoneman Douglas High School in Parkland, Fla., last February, which spawned a powerful youth movement.“Successful legislative change follows cultural change,” said Emily Nottingham, whose son, Gabriel Zimmerman, then an aide to Ms. Giffords, was killed in the Tucson shooting. She added, “When more and more people recognize that this is a national issue that can affect all of us, not just a few people somewhere else, then cultural change happens, and that’s what we’re seeing now.”Under the Thompson bill, anyone who wanted to sell a gun but lacked a license would have to take the weapon to a licensed dealer, who would then conduct a background check on the purchaser.Transfers between law enforcement officers and military personnel acting in a professional capacity would be exempt, as would “a loan or bona fide gift between spouses, between domestic partners, between parents and their children, between siblings, between aunts and uncles and their nieces or nephews or between grandparents and their grandchildren,” according to the text of the bill.Transfers to executors of estates would also be exempt, as would temporary transfers of weapons for the purpose of hunting or to “prevent imminent death or great bodily harm.”AdvertisementSupported byBy ReutersZURICH — Two of out three Swiss voters support tightening gun controls in line with changes to European Union rules, a poll released on Friday showed, potentially heading off a clash with Brussels.The restrictions, which apply to non-EU member Switzerland because it is part of Europe's Schengen open-border system, have raised hackles among Swiss shooting enthusiasts ahead of a binding referendum on May 19.Failure to adopt the rules could force Switzerland to leave the passport-free Schengen zone and the Dublin joint system for handling asylum requests.After militants killed scores in Paris and elsewhere in 2015, the EU in 2017 toughened laws against purchasing semi-automatic rifles like the ones used in those attacks, and made it easier to track weapons in national databases.Friday's gfs.bern poll for broadcaster SRF showed 66 percent of eligible voters questioned support tougher gun controls while 33 percent opposed the change. The margin of error was 2.9 percentage points.The initial EU proposal provoked an outcry because it meant a ban on the long Swiss tradition of ex-soldiers keeping their assault rifles.Swiss officials have negotiated concessions for gun enthusiasts who take part in the country's numerous shooting clubs, but any restrictions imported from the EU go too far for right-wing activists concerned about Swiss sovereignty.Gun rights proponents complain the rules could disarm law-abiding citizens and encroach on Switzerland's heritage and national identity that includes a well-armed citizenry.Switzerland has one of the highest rates of private gun ownership in Europe, with nearly 48 percent of households owning a gun. But that harks back to a long tradition of self-defense and to the Swiss policy of near-universal conscription, and gun-related crime is low.In a separate referendum also on May 19, voters will decide on a corporate tax overhaul whose passage the finance minister has described as "existential" for Switzerland as a business hub. AdvertisementSupported byBy The Associated PressWELLINGTON, New Zealand — New Zealand lawmakers have voted overwhelmingly in favor of new gun control measures during the first stage of a bill they hope to rush into law by the end of next week.The bill would ban the types of weapons a gunman used to kill 50 people at two mosques last month.Only one lawmaker from the 120 that sit in Parliament voted against the legislation in a bipartisan display of unity. Tuesday's vote was the first of three that lawmakers must pass before the bill becomes law.AdvertisementSupported byThe Parkland students became a force for gun control legislation and boosted the youth vote. Here’s how they changed America’s response to mass shootings. By Margaret Kramer and Jennifer HarlanOn Feb. 14, 2018, a former student slaughtered 17 people at Marjory Stoneman Douglas High School in Parkland, Fla. The next day, David Hogg, a student who survived the attack, expressed his frustration at the pattern of political inaction that seems to follow mass shootings in the United States. He was not surprised that there had been another school shooting, he said, and that fact alone “says so much about the current state that our country is in, and how much has to be done.”“We need to do something,” he said. In the course of the next year, students would change the way the nation handles mass shootings, spurring new gun legislation and school safety measures, and holding to account the adults they felt had failed them.Here’s a look at where they made those changes happen, and where they were disappointed. With Parkland, it was the students who set the agenda. Their openness about their pain made them formidable leaders of the movement for gun control, and their displays of strength and utter grief struck a chord with a nation numbed by repeated acts of violence.In the weeks after the shooting, busloads of Stoneman Douglas students took their case to the Florida capital and to Washington. With a rallying cry of “Never Again,” they gathered support from other young people and activists, and their March for Our Lives campaign spurred huge rallies and hundreds of protests, including a nationwide school walkout. The students’ pleas reached the White House, imploring President Trump to better protect schools and limit access to guns. And the movement brought youth activism to a new age — finding global power in social media and pushing public officials to acknowledge their accountability. [Read how the Parkland massacre has changed the lives of the survivors in their own words.]Three months after the massacre in Parkland, 10 people were killed in yet another school shooting, this one in Santa Fe, Tex., compounding the Stoneman Douglas students’ outrage and resolve, and placing them in a new role: consoling those who were suffering as they were. “Something about Parkland has been different,” said Melissa Strassner, a survivor of the Columbine school shooting in 1999. “They truly have inspired a nation.”Stoneman Douglas students and parents were outraged by what they viewed as gross incompetence on the part of school and law enforcement officials. Video showed that a sheriff’s deputy assigned to the school did not enter the building as the attack unfolded. Seven other deputies remained outside as gunshots rang out, a state commission found. And another officer prevented paramedics from entering.The school district also appeared to have missed several warning signs about the former student charged in the massacre, Nikolas Cruz. The parents of two 14-year-old students who were killed decided to run for the school board to fix what they thought went wrong. One of them won.And in January, Florida’s new Republican governor, Ron DeSantis, suspended Sheriff Scott Israel for his “neglect of duty” and “incompetence.” Mr. Israel, who is a Democrat and a vocal opponent of the National Rifle Association, continues to insist that the criticism of him is politically motivated and that “there was no wrongdoing on my part.” Multiple deputies have also been suspended, and one ultimately resigned.In the case of Mr. Cruz, the warning signs were many. There were the boasts about killing animals, the expulsion, the stalking of a female classmate, the repeated calls from his mother to the police. School counselors and a sheriff’s deputy decided at one point that he should be forcibly committed for psychiatric evaluation, only to apparently change their minds the next day. Multiple tips to the F.B.I. were left uninvestigated — one woman told the bureau’s tip line she was worried about Mr. Cruz going “into a school and just shooting the place up.” At that time, there was no law in Florida that would have prevented Mr. Cruz from buying a gun or would have allowed the police to take away his weapon. A gun control bill the state passed in March now allows law enforcement — with judicial approval — to bar a person deemed dangerous from owning guns for up to a year. Florida courts granted more than 1,000 such orders in the first nine months after the law took effect, according to The Associated Press. Eight other states have passed similar “red flag” laws in the last year, bringing the total with such laws to 14. Several more states are expected to take up measures in 2019.State legislatures, both Republican- and Democratic-controlled, passed 76 gun control laws in the past year  — from bans on bump stocks and caps on magazine sizes to new minimum-age requirements and expanded background checks. Among the victories for gun control advocates was an omnibus bill in Florida that raised the minimum age to purchase a firearm in the state to 21 and extended the waiting period to three days. In all, more than half the states passed at least one gun control measure in 2018, with Washington and New York joining the trend in 2019. At the same time, there were significantly fewer new state laws expanding gun rights in 2018 than the year before, according to an end-of-year report by the national advocacy group Giffords. Data provided by the N.R.A. also indicated that the number of enacted gun control measures outnumbered pro-gun measures for the first time in at least six years.But at the federal level, any momentum for change was quickly stymied by partisan gridlock. Republican leaders in Congress remained silent as their Democratic colleagues called, once again, for changes in the wake of a mass shooting. The White House flip-flopped on promises to raise the minimum age to purchase rifles and to enforce universal background checks. And the N.R.A. pressed lawmakers, including the president, to give priority to the interests of gun owners.[Nearly 1,200 children have been killed by gun violence since the shooting in Parkland. Read how teenage journalists told their stories.]In the end, the only significant national change was a ban on bump stocks — which members of both parties had been calling for since the Las Vegas shooting in October 2017. The House of Representatives, where Democrats took power in January, has now made gun safety a priority, and the Judiciary Committee passed two gun-control bills on Wednesday that would strengthen background checks and close a loophole that allowed Dylann S. Roof to buy a gun that he used in the Charleston church massacre in 2015. But with a Republican Senate and president, the chances of either measure moving beyond the House are virtually nil.In the days after Parkland, a flood of threats and false alarms heightened the focus on school security nationwide. Schools have turned to an array of measures: hiring armed guards, requiring students to carry clear backpacks, arming teachers with baseball bats. Some campuses have added more cameras and metal detectors or hired companies to monitor students’ social media for potential threats — all of which has created a lucrative market for school security.The president voiced support in the days after Parkland for arming teachers with guns as a way to prevent further massacres. It was an early indicator of the tack that he and congressional Republicans would take in addressing the shooting. In March, Mr. Trump announced the creation of a federal commission to examine school safety proposals, including raising the minimum age for buying certain firearms. But two months later, Education Secretary Betsy DeVos informed a Senate committee that the commission would not look at the role guns play in school violence. Its final report played down the role of guns, and advised schools to improve mental health services and train school personnel to use firearms.When it became clear that Congress would not act on guns, the Parkland students turned their attention to rallying young voters and increasing turnout in the midterm elections in November.Madison Leal, a student at Stoneman Douglas, said in March about politicians who would not take action: “I’m going to vote them out of office. And so is my entire generation. And they’ll be sorry then.” In the summer, a busload of students traveled the country on a Road to Change tour aimed at registering young voters. In tandem with various voter groups and celebrities promoting registration, the Parkland students helped spike record numbers for young voter registration, registering thousands of voters at their rallies. The March for Our Lives campaign reported a 10 percent increase in youth turnout in 2018, compared with the previous midterm elections in 2014.AdvertisementSupported byBy Emily CochraneWASHINGTON — The House on Thursday rebuffed a furious lobbying campaign by the National Rifle Association and approved a revamped Violence Against Women Act that would expand law enforcement’s ability to restrict gun purchases by convicted domestic abusers.The legislation passed easily, 263 to 158, but the divided vote came on what was once a broadly bipartisan measure first passed in 1994. In recent years, partisan rancor over efforts to expand the protections of the legislation have clouded efforts to renew it, and this year, the divide was over gun control.The provisions would close the so-called boyfriend loophole and bar those under a restraining order or who were convicted of abusing, assaulting or stalking a domestic partner from buying guns. The N.R.A. seized on the new measures and warned Congress that it would track and publish how lawmakers voted, hoping to intimidate Republicans and Democrats in Republican-leaning districts.“Do not let the N.R.A. bully you,” Representative Debbie Dingell, Democrat of Michigan, urged her colleagues before the vote, noting that her recently deceased husband, former Representative John Dingell Jr., also a Democrat, was a member of the organization.Thirty-three Republicans bucked the threat and voted with the Democratic majority in favor of the legislation — among them, Representative Brian Fitzpatrick of Pennsylvania, the sole Republican sponsor of the reauthorization. Representative Jeff Fortenberry, Republican of Nebraska, voted present.Democrats, including all of the freshman members who won in districts swept by Donald J. Trump in 2016, stood up to the gun lobby, with only one — Representative Collin C. Peterson of Minnesota — voting no.Many in the new majority campaigned on tightening access to guns, and they appeared to embrace condemnation from the gun lobby as a badge of honor.“Lawmakers should be reading the tea leaves,” said Shannon Watts, the founder of Moms Demand Action for Gun Sense in America, a group that supports restricting gun laws. “In the midterm elections, it was gun safety that got people to the polls.”Other supporters of the legislation argued that the gun provisions made up only a fraction of the protections offered by the bill, and included invaluable resources for survivors.“This wasn’t a gun bill — this is a bill to protect women,” said Lisette Johnson, a member of the Everytown Survivor Network and a survivor of domestic abuse. “This passing today is really a huge support for women and keeping them safer.”Republicans had advocated a clean one-year extension of the current law, which expired in February, arguing that new elements of the legislation were controversial and overreached — in particular, the gun restrictions and language offering additional protections to transgender people.“Can we stop playing political games at the expense of vulnerable women?” asked Representative Elise Stefanik, Republican of New York, before the vote, arguing that the bill put forward by Democrats would “collect dust in the Senate.” (Democrats, who booed vigorously during her speech, rejected her motion.)The vote highlighted the stark contrasts between the new Democratic majority, with its historic number of women, and the Republican minority, which has struggled to attract female voters and to increase the number of conservative women holding office on Capitol Hill. Democrats framed opposition to the legislation’s renewal as a denial of protections for survivors of abuse, efforts to prevent domestic violence and support for law enforcement.Representative Sharice Davids, Democrat of Kansas and one of the first two Native American women elected to Congress in November, presided over the final vote on the measure, which contains a number of protections for women on tribal lands — including a new provision that would allow tribal courts to prosecute nonnative people accused of domestic crimes or dating violence on tribal lands.A number of Democrats, including Ms. Dingell and Representative Katie Porter of California, offered passionate defenses of the legislation, repeatedly drawing on their own experiences as survivors of domestic abuse.“I know that fear, I know that terror and I just want to try to save another family from going through that terror,” Ms. Dingell said at a news conference on Wednesday, recalling being afraid as a child that her father, who had mental illness and owned a gun, would harm her mother or her siblings. “Why would you not close that loophole?”Republicans, beyond objecting to what they said was an infringement on gun ownership, argued that the measure contained other proposals that were too broad for a law intended to protect survivors of assault. In previous hearings and speeches, they had singled out provisions that would expand protections for transgender people and require the Bureau of Prisons to consider the safety and protection of transgender prisoners when giving housing assignments.“We find ourselves debating a VAWA reauthorization act that is literally a Christmas tree of progressive liberal policy objectives, rather than an honest approach to reforming and updating such an important law,” said Representative Debbie Lesko, Republican of Arizona, who is a survivor of domestic abuse.The legislation heads to the Senate, where Senators Dianne Feinstein, Democrat of California, and Joni Ernst, Republican of Iowa, have said they will lead efforts to pass a version. It is unclear how many of the new gun provisions in the House legislation will prevail in the Republican-controlled Senate.“There are a number of improvements in the House bill that I think should be in our version, including preserving improvements already made in the 2013 reauthorization,” Ms. Feinstein said in a statement after the vote. “I hope the Senate will move quickly. This is an important law and one the Senate should take very seriously and act upon expeditiously.”Paul Manafort’s Trail of ScandalsMy Dead Dad’s Porno TapesTen Meter TowerBetween Sound and SilenceCoal Miner to Trump: “Coal Mining Isn’t Coming Back”House Tour | Cary LeibowitzSanctuary City HotlineAdvertisementSupported byBy Sheryl Gay Stolberg and Catie EdmondsonWASHINGTON — House Democrats are poised this week to adopt legislation requiring background checks for all gun purchasers, the first major expansion of gun control laws in a quarter century and the opening salvo in a broader drive to address an issue that once sharply divided the party.In back-to-back votes, the House will take up two separate background check measures. On Wednesday it will consider the Bipartisan Background Checks Act, which would require background checks for all firearm sales, including those sold at gun shows and online. On Thursday it will turn to the Enhanced Background Checks Act, which would extend the time allotted for the F.B.I. to conduct background checks.The action in the House reflects dramatic changes in the political climate over guns that culminated with last year’s midterm elections. A string of mass shootings, coupled with student-led activism after last year’s massacre at Marjory Stoneman Douglas High School in Parkland, Fla., produced a wave of Democratic candidates — including some from Republican-leaning districts — who ran and won while calling for limits on access to guns.“It’s a real moment for the nation,” said one of those Democrats, Representative Lucy McBath of Georgia, who began advocating for gun control after her 17-year-old son, Jordan Davis, was shot dead in 2012. “We’re at a critical mass now where families are just saying they’ve had enough.”Both measures face dim prospects in the Republican-controlled Senate. Senator John Thune of South Dakota, the No. 3 Republican, said Tuesday it was “unlikely” the Senate would take them up.But this week’s House action is still significant. The last time Congress passed major gun control legislation was 1994, when an assault weapons ban was enacted, along with the so-called Brady Bill, which required background checks on most gun sales.Democrats were punished roundly at the polls that year, with Republicans taking control of Congress and not relinquishing it for 12 years. For years afterward, Democrats were skittish about taking up gun-related bills.The assault weapons ban expired in 2004, when Congress was under Republican control. When Democrats held the House from 2007 to 2011, no gun legislation was passed.“There are still differences within our party as to how far we want to go,” Representative Steny D. Hoyer of Maryland, the House Democratic leader, told reporters on Tuesday. But Mr. Hoyer said he is convinced that the two bills being voted on this week have the support of the “overwhelming majority of the American people.”Robin Lloyd, the managing director of the Giffords Law Center to Prevent Gun Violence, praised House Democrats for prioritizing the measures, noting that just a year ago, the Republican-controlled House tried — but failed — to pass legislation that would have required states to recognize concealed weapons permits issued in other states, effectively creating a national law allowing concealed weapons. That bill is a high priority for the National Rifle Association.“Now we’re having the opposite conversation, and I do think that demonstrates how quickly this shift has happened,” Ms. Lloyd said. “It is a paradigm shift from where we were even 18 months ago.”House Republicans, however, have been scathing in their criticism of the bills.“This bill turns law-abiding citizens into criminals and it’s one more step toward federalized gun registration and ultimately gun confiscation,” said Representative Steve Scalise of Louisiana, the Republican whip, who was shot in the hip and gravely wounded in 2017 when a gunman fired on members of the Republican congressional baseball team practicing in Virginia.Republicans including Mr. Scalise argue that expanding background checks would not have prevented many of the mass shootings that have garnered public attention in recent years. Most of those massacres were carried out with guns purchased legally by gunmen who passed background checks.The bills to expand background checks are the first in what could be a series of measures to address gun violence, said Representative Mike Thompson, Democrat of California, who leads a congressional Gun Violence Prevention Task Force. Mr. Thompson said the group has a “pretty aggressive schedule” and is bringing in experts to advise on what will reduce gun violence.Ms. McBath, a task force member, said the group is also looking at measures to reduce children’s access to guns, and also “red flag laws” that give authorities or household members the ability to seek court orders that would prohibit gun purchases by those deemed a risk to themselves or others.Congress did pass a modest gun-related bill last year, the so-called Fix Nics Act, which required federal agencies and states to do a better job of reporting criminal offenses and other information into the national instant check system, or Nics. And since the Parkland massacre, gun safety advocates have made great strides outside the capital; in 2018, legislators in 26 states and the District of Columbia passed 67 gun safety measures, according to a recent analysis by the Giffords Law Center.The last time Congress considered major gun safety legislation was in 2013, after the massacre that killed 20 children and six adults at the Sandy Hook Elementary School in Newtown, Conn.With survivors of mass shootings looking down from the gallery — and amid cries of “Shame on you!” — the Senate at that time fell short of the 60 votes required to break a filibuster on a bipartisan bill similar to the measure the House will take up Wednesday. That bill’s sponsors, Senators Joe Manchin III, Democrat of West Virginia, and Patrick J. Toomey, Republican of Pennsylvania, did not sound optimistic on Tuesday about the prospects for reviving it.“I need some help,” Mr. Manchin said. “I need some Republican help.”Mr. Toomey said he has been “working to try to find where we could get to consensus.” But, he added, “It’s looking like it’s an uphill battle to get 60 votes.”Thursday marks the 25th anniversary of the Brady Bill, named for James. S. Brady, the White House press secretary injured during an assassination attempt on President Ronald Reagan in 1981. That bill took more than six years and seven votes to pass, according to Kris Brown, president of the Brady Center to Prevent Gun Violence, which this week is rebranding itself under the name “Brady.” But it did not address gun show sales or sales over the internet, which have exploded since then.“For us at Brady, it’s a really meaningful and frankly almost emotional moment,” Ms. Brown said, referring to the coming House votes.Under federal law, if a gun consumer does not pass a background check instantly, the F.B.I. has three business days to determine whether there is sufficient evidence to deny a purchase. If they are unable to do so, on the fourth day, the purchaser can return to the dealer and buy a gun.Paul Manafort’s Trail of ScandalsMy Dead Dad’s Porno TapesTen Meter TowerBetween Sound and SilenceCoal Miner to Trump: “Coal Mining Isn’t Coming Back”House Tour | Cary LeibowitzSanctuary City HotlineAdvertisementSupported byBy Charlotte Graham-McLayWELLINGTON, New Zealand — Less than a month after 50 Muslim worshipers in the city of Christchurch were fatally shot in terrorist attacks on two mosques, New Zealand passed a law banning most semiautomatic weapons on Wednesday — a measure supported by all but one of Parliament’s 120 lawmakers.The passage of the bill means temporary restrictions imposed by Prime Minister Jacinda Ardern six days after the massacre, to prevent New Zealanders from stockpiling guns before the law went into effect, will now be permanent. The swift action by lawmakers stands in stark contrast to similar efforts in the United States, where nationwide gun control proposals have stalled despite a series of mass shootings in recent years.“New Zealand stands apart in its widespread availability of weapons of such destructive nature and force,” Ms. Ardern told Parliament on Wednesday. “Today that anomaly ends.”Many Americans can buy a gun in less than an hour. In New Zealand, the process can take weeks or months.She said she could not have faced the surviving victims of the Christchurch attack “hand on heart” and told them “our system and our laws allow these guns to be available and that is O.K. It is not.”The law outlaws military-style semiautomatic weapons and assault rifles, and violators face five years in prison. Some semiautomatic guns will still be allowed, including .22-caliber rifles with magazines holding fewer than 10 rounds, and shotguns with internal magazines that hold no more than five rounds. All of the weapons used by the Christchurch gunman will be banned, as well as parts and magazines that can convert lower-powered guns to higher-powered versions.In her speech, Ms. Ardern, who leads the center-left Labour Party, choked up when she talked about visiting surviving victims at Christchurch Hospital. In addition to those killed, 50 people were injured in the attack.“None of them had one gunshot wound. In every case they spoke of multiple injuries,” Ms. Ardern said. “They will carry disabilities for a lifetime, and that’s before you even consider the psychological impact.”Similar laws had been recommended to New Zealand’s Parliament several times before, but each time they had failed to gain support from lawmakers — including after the mass shooting that had previously been New Zealand’s largest, in which a gunman killed 13 people in 1990.This time, the bill quickly sailed through Parliament. Usually in New Zealand, new laws can take around six months to pass after they are introduced. More than 13,000 people submitted opinions to the government — 60 percent in support of the ban — and some were invited to speak to lawmakers in a single day of public hearings.But while sports shooters and farmers were among those who pleaded for exemptions to the restrictions, lawmakers allowed just two: for commercial pest-control businesses and for licensed collectors of guns, or those who want to keep particular guns as heirlooms or mementos. Collectors will be required to remove a part, making the weapons nonoperational, and store that part at a different location.Ms. Ardern’s center-right opponents used their speeches on Wednesday to praise her leadership since the March 15 attacks and voice their support for the changes. Just one, David Seymour, the leader of the libertarian ACT Party, voted against the law.Mr. Seymour said he was not opposed to more restrictive gun laws but believed that Parliament had rushed the process. “It is not an attempt to improve public safety, it is an exercise in political theater,” said Mr. Seymour, who argued that there was a risk of a growing black market in banned weapons.Ms. Ardern had dismissed concerns that Parliament was moving too fast. “My question here is simple: You either believe that in New Zealand these weapons have a place or you do not. And if you do not, you should be able to agree that we can move swiftly,” she said. “My view is that an argument about process is an argument to do nothing.”Many commentators welcomed the new measures but said work remained to be done to ensure that gun regulations were properly enforced. The government said more measures, including a requirement to register individual firearms, would be in place by the end of the year.“We really need to have a system where we understand where all the firearms in New Zealand are,” said Chris Cahill, president of the Police Association, a national union for police officers. He added that gun owners should be forced to justify wanting to own large numbers of guns, something he said “hadn’t been challenged enough” in the past.200 MILESAucklandTasmanSeaNORTH ISLANDNEW ZEALANDMastertonWellingtonChristchurchSOUTH ISLANDPacificOceanBy The New York TimesNew Zealand’s Muslim leaders agreed that the new law should be just a starting point for more regulation.“This is a law that should have been passed many years ago,” said Mustafa Farouk, the president of the Federation of Islamic Associations of New Zealand. Speaking of the families of the victims, he said, “Passing that law is part of justice for them.”Because Britain’s Queen Elizabeth II is technically New Zealand’s head of state, her representative, New Zealand’s governor-general, will now give the final approval to pass the bill into law. This is considered a formality, and is due to happen Thursday.The government has also established a gun buyback plan, which will run for six months for legal owners of the weapons now banned.John Hart, a sheep and beef farmer from Masterton on New Zealand’s North Island, said he had already turned in one weapon — which he had owned for 10 years — to the police, because after the attacks he felt “uncomfortable” in possession of it.“In the weeks or months or years before Friday the 15th, I hadn’t thought about it. It was just a tool,” he said, adding that after the shootings he realized that in the wrong hands “it was a terrible weapon.”AdvertisementSupported byBy Damien CaveCHRISTCHURCH, New Zealand — When the prime minister announced plans to ban semiautomatic rifles following Friday’s mass shootings, it seemed to be the bold response that many New Zealanders wanted — until the country’s attorney general backpedaled almost immediately and said that might not be the government’s final decision.Even after a massacre that left 50 people dead, the fight over guns and safety will be a fraught one for politicians in peaceful New Zealand, just as it is in the United States.But there is a crucial difference between the two countries that is already apparent: While Washington struggles to take action even as such shootings become more routine, New Zealand’s government is immediately diving into a detailed discussion of further legislative checks on guns.The outright prohibition of semiautomatic weapons proposed by Prime Minister Jacinda Ardern may no longer be on the near-term table. But she’s made clear that lawmakers will look at a range of options, from gun buybacks to restrictions on magazines for semiautomatic rifles.“New Zealand has to have this debate,” said Alexander Gillespie, a law professor at the University of Waikato, who once predicted that the country’s approach to firearms would lead to more mass shootings. “This is a place where your car has to be registered, your dog has to be registered. But your gun doesn’t.”[New Zealand will open an inquiry on what was known about the gunman before the massacre.]New Zealand’s relationship to firearms amounts to a sliding scale of restrictions. Gun owners need a license, but the most commonly used guns, like hunting rifles, are never registered and can be easily bought and sold in large quantities. Handguns and semiautomatic weapons are more closely tracked, requiring a permit for each purchase and a separate license — making it harder but not impossible to amass an arsenal.The mix of freedom and regulation reflects the country’s frontier history, according to experts, who note that New Zealand’s link to weaponry bears a resemblance to the United States, Australia and Canada, but with a few important distinctions.Many Americans can buy a gun in less than an hour. In New Zealand, the process can take weeks or months.There is no right to own a gun here, as there is in the United States; rather, it is considered a privilege with responsibility.The gun culture that has developed tends to be organized, careful and not particularly widespread. Of the 3.9 million New Zealanders of gun-licensing age, 238,000 — 6 percent — have a firearm license, according to GunPolicy.org.In the United States, according to a Pew study from 2017, three out of 10 Americans report owning at least one firearm.New Zealand has also been comfortable with the idea of restricting access to certain weapons for almost as long as the country has existed. In 1845, colonial leaders tried to stop the flow of muskets into tribal areas.After a mass shooting in 1990, when a man killed 13 people, including two 6-year-olds, after a dispute with his neighbor in the seaside town of Aramoana, New Zealand’s Parliament added additional license requirements for semiautomatic weapons and handguns.“On the whole New Zealand doesn’t prohibit firearms,” Mr. Gillespie said. “New Zealand reacts with regulations.”After a handful of failures to push through stronger rules over the past decade, he and others said, the question now is how far the government will try to go to further control guns.Some gun owners argue the laws on the books are enough, and that no amount of additional legislation would have prevented Friday’s massacre.“First of all, this is insanity,” said Mike Loder, a contributor to Kiwi Gun Blog. “We know why he did it. He did it in revenge for a Muslim killing people with a truck. It wasn’t about guns.” Mr. Loder was referring to the shooter’s own widely reported account of his radicalization.But compared with those in the United States, conversations about guns tend to be calmer and less ideological in New Zealand. Many New Zealanders seem eager to find some middle ground, with the latest round of arguments over the country’s gun laws inevitably being shaped by countervailing forces.On the one hand, with its current gun laws, New Zealand had one of the lowest murder rates in the world, as of a week ago. But the horrific bloodshed at the two mosques has clearly shaken what had been the country’s prevailing sense of safety.“We’ve lived in a utopia, but the world’s caught up with us,” said Chris Cahill, head of the Police Association, a union of police officers. “Our innocence is gone.”A shift may already be rippling through the country.On Sunday morning, Raymond Healey, 49, a member of the Christchurch Pistol Club, arrived at a local shooting range, hoping to get some time firing at targets. He was greeted with a white sign, painted in red capital letters: “range closed.”Wearing olive green fleece, khaki pants and untied boots, Mr. Healey said he wasn’t surprised given news of the shootings. He said the gun backlash was also to be expected.“I can understand why people would want more restrictions,” he said.He added that he’d be willing to consider changes. “There are always improvements that could be made to the law,” Mr. Healey said. “There probably are loopholes.”One of the main ones, experts say, involves how easy it is to turn a legal semiautomatic weapon into an illegal killing machine with magazines of ammunition that go beyond what is allowed.Under New Zealand law, the most common A license allows for the purchase of a semiautomatic rifle with a magazine containing seven bullets. An E license is needed for semiautomatics with larger magazines, and it can only be obtained through a more elaborate process of interviews and references.But there are no restrictions on the purchase of magazines.“Anybody can buy them without a license,” Mr. Healey said. “I thought for a long time you shouldn’t be able to do that.”On Saturday, the police said the gunman had modified a “category A firearm,” suggesting that he purchased a semiautomatic with the basic license then added magazines with illegal levels of firepower.Ross Mason, the chairman of the National Rifle Association of New Zealand, which is not connected to the American N.R.A., also said the purchase of magazines raised issues.But he cautioned against a wider ban on semiautomatic rifles in general.“The reason they became available here is because we were trying to eliminate deer from our forest and bush and other four-legged pests, so there was a lot of shooting of these animals from helicopters,” Mr. Mason said. “You needed to have something to fire shots very quickly.”Out of concern that gun sales might be significantly restricted, Radio New Zealand reported that there was a rush on gun stores this weekend, with people “panic buying” weapons.Prime Minister Ardern seems to be listening, at least for now, to all sides in the debate.She also seems determined to do what the United States Congress has not, which is to act.“Our gun laws will change — now is the time,” Ms. Ardern said Saturday. “People will be seeking change, and I am committed to that.”Reporting was contributed by Emily Steel, Charlotte Graham-McLay and Jamie Tarabay from Christchurch; and Danny Hakim from New York.Want more coverage from Australia and New Zealand? Sign up for the weekly Australia Letter, start your day with your local Morning Briefing and join us in our Facebook group.AdvertisementSupported byBy The Associated PressWELLINGTON, New Zealand — New Zealand lawmakers on Tuesday voted overwhelmingly in favor of new gun restrictions during the first stage of a bill they hope to rush into law by the end of next week.The bill would ban the types of weapons a gunman used to kill 50 people at two mosques last month.The bill was backed by both liberals and conservatives, with only a single lawmaker from the 120 that sit in Parliament voting against it. The vote was the first of three that lawmakers must pass before the bill becomes law.Police Minister Stuart Nash said far too many people have access to dangerous guns and lawmakers were driven by the need to ensure public safety."We are also driven by the memory of 50 men, women and children who were taken from their loved ones on the 15th of March," Nash said. "Their memory is our responsibility. We don't ever want to see an attack like this in our country again. We are compelled to act quickly."Seemingly drawing a distinction with the U.S., where gun possession is constitutionally protected, Nash said that in New Zealand, gun ownership remains a privilege and not a right.Conservative lawmaker David Seymour voted against the bill, saying it was too rushed."Doing it in nine days before politicians go on their Easter break is starting to look more like political theater than public safety," he said.But Seymour was so busy explaining to reporters his reasons for opposing the bill that he missed a procedural vote in which he could have tried to slow its passage.Many New Zealanders were shocked at the firepower the gunman was able to legally obtain and favor the legislative changes.Some are opposed. More than 14,000 have signed a petition filed in Parliament which says the law changes are "unjust" for law-abiding citizens and are being driven by emotions.AdvertisementSupported byBy Vivian Wang and Jesse McKinley [What you need to know to start the day: Get New York Today in your inbox.]ALBANY — New York lawmakers on Tuesday approved the most comprehensive set of gun bills in the state in six years, including measures that would ban bump stocks, prohibit teachers from carrying guns in schools and extend the waiting period for gun buyers who do not pass an instant background check.In total, six gun bills passed easily through the State Senate and Assembly, a remarkable sight in a Capitol that for years had resisted almost all new legislation on the subject.Gov. Andrew M. Cuomo, a Democrat, last ushered a major gun safety package into law in 2013, after the massacre at Sandy Hook Elementary School in Newtown, Conn. The governor successfully corralled recalcitrant Senate Republicans into supporting the so-called Safe Act that expanded the state’s ban on assault weapons, tightened certification requirements, increased criminal penalties for illegal guns and closed private sale loopholes.Mr. Cuomo has described the Safe Act as one of his signature achievements. But it has also become a rallying cry for some gun owners and Republican politicians who felt it overreached.“Sometimes history irrefutably bears out your actions,” the governor said on Tuesday, at a news conference lined with gun safety advocates. “Today is the next evolution in this ongoing crusade.”The relative ease of the laws’ passage highlighted, for the second time in just two days, the upheaval that November’s election brought to Albany. Democrats captured the Senate for the first time in a decade, delivering one-party control of state government. Since the legislative session began this month, both chambers have sent long-stymied bills in rapid-fire procession to the governor’s desk.On Monday, for example, a bill to protect child sex abuse victims sailed through the Legislature, 13 years after its introduction. The Senate, which under Republican rule never allowed the bill to reach the floor for a vote, unanimously approved it.Tuesday’s marquee gun bills passed largely along partisan lines. No Republican senators voted to extend the waiting period for completing background checks to 30 days from three. Just one voted for the proposal to ban arming teachers.The most debated item was a so-called red flag bill, which would allow family members, school officials or law enforcement to ask courts to temporarily block someone from buying or owning a gun, if the judge decided that person posed a potential risk.That provision in particular drew an emotional response from Linda Beigel Schulman, whose son, Scott, grew up on Long Island and was teaching at Stoneman Douglas High School in Parkland, Fla. during the massacre there last year; he was killed while helping students flee the shooter.“Parkland would’ve never happened if they had a red flag law,” Ms. Schulman said while sitting alongside Mr. Cuomo, adding that one of the killer’s former teachers told her that the shooter had showed disturbing tendencies.Senator Brian Kavanagh, a Democrat from New York City who sponsored the bill, said the number of New York state residents who die each year — 772 in 2017, according to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention — because of guns “is unacceptable.” He added: “It’s also preventable.”California, Washington, Indiana and Connecticut have similar provisions to keep guns away from high-risk people.Republicans suggested the bill would allow people to randomly curtail Second Amendment rights for many New Yorkers.“Today’s actions infringe upon the rights of law-abiding citizens,” said Senator Pamela Helming, from Central New York.The bill ultimately passed the Senate 42-21, and the Assembly 83-32.A few proposals did earn Republican votes: those that would establish a gun buyback program, and that would prohibit the sale of bump stocks, which enable semiautomatic rifles to fire in sustained, rapid bursts. A bill allowing New York regulators to access mental health records for out-of-state gun buyers passed nearly unanimously.The governor acknowledged that strengthening New York’s gun laws could invite legal challenges from gun advocacy groups and activists, given the conservative tilt of the Supreme Court. The high court’s justices recently announced that they would review a New York City gun law, the court’s first Second Amendment case in nearly a decade.Several Republicans accused Democrats of grandstanding by pushing laws that already exist; for example, President Trump imposed a federal ban on bump stocks last year after the mass murder of 58 people in Las Vegas. (The ban is regulatory, however, not statutory, and several groups have announced their intention to challenge it in court.)Mr. Cuomo, a frequent and favorite antagonist of the National Rifle Association, has been accused of politicizing gun control for his own benefit. But he also has a long record of fighting for stricter gun regulations, and he has frequently pointed out that his public support, especially upstate, never fully recovered after passage of the Safe Act.On Tuesday, Democratic leaders in the Legislature also made their antipathy to widespread gun use clear.“I personally don’t agree with it, but I respect it,” the Assembly speaker, Carl E. Heastie, said of the Second Amendment.Senator Andrea Stewart-Cousins, the Senate majority leader, promised further action in the coming months. The only other major gun legislation passed since the Safe Act was a law last year to take guns away from domestic abusers.“It will not be six years, believe me, between sensible gun laws,” she said.AdvertisementSupported byThe EthicistBy Kwame Anthony AppiahAs a gun owner who abhors the ‘‘slippery slope’’ philosophy of the N.R.A., every new mass shooting sickens me. I would like to sell one of my three weapons and give the proceeds to March for Our Lives or Everytown for Gun Safety. Is it better to: 1) Sell it knowing the $750-$1,000 would do some good; 2) Keep the gun knowing it won’t be used; or 3) Destroy it/surrender it to the police for disposal? Name WithheldBy the ‘‘slippery slope’’ philosophy of the N.R.A., I assume you mean its tendency to argue that any proposed gun regulation is a step toward canceling the Second Amendment: to equate restriction with abolition. I assume too that you think that some of these mass shootings could have been stopped by laws that the N.R.A. opposes and that are nevertheless consistent with the Constitution. The gun-control organizations you mention share those beliefs; sending them a check would express your support and enable you to join the community of people trying to do something about gun violence.But the case against (1) is that your check, which isn’t going to make the difference between success and failure for either of these gun-control groups, scarcely changes the likelihood of future gun deaths, while selling the gun marginally increases the likelihood that it will end up being used in a crime. As for (2), you can’t be absolutely sure that a gun won’t cause harm just because it’s in your house. For one thing, someone might break in and steal it; for another, you might use it against yourself. Suicide, remember, accounts for a majority of gun-related deaths. If you went for (3), you could render the gun harmless by having it destroyed, but doing so wouldn’t much change the likelihood of future gun deaths, either.One reason that I have misgivings about what’s been called ‘‘quandary ethics’’ — ethics conceived of as solving puzzles like these — is that, as in this case, it can be close to impossible to calculate the costs and benefits of the various outcomes you consider. A deeper problem is that there are typically options you haven’t considered. In this case, you could wait for a gun-buyback program — they’ve had these recently in many cities — and send the money (which would be less than the market value of your weapon) to one of these organizations, thus both supporting gun control and making sure that the weapon won’t be used for malign purposes.For that matter, you could throw yourself into the work of one of these organizations, which are going to succeed only if more of their supporters aren’t content with just sending them money. The influence of the N.R.A. can’t be reduced to the power of the purse; though its political expenditures far exceed those of gun-control groups, its finances are surprisingly precarious. And note that the labor sector, say, hugely outspends it, while its political power has seemed to diminish. Many political experts would say that the N.R.A.’s ability to mobilize its millions of members has a lot to do with its efficacy. If gun control matters to you, your support shouldn’t be limited to your checkbook.I agreed to sponsor a cousin’s immigration application, which involved affirming I can and will provide the applicant with a financial safety net for seven years. I’d met the cousin only once, but I count his aunts among my favorite relatives and was told by his father that he is financially independent, hardworking and eager to contribute to his new homeland.With the process underway, my cousin’s father came to visit, and the two insisted on conveying their gratitude by hosting my family at a brunch. Somehow the subject of Trump came up. Though my husband and I did not vote for the president, we maintain relationships with friends and family who did. Yet hearing the young man that we put on the road to citizenship express his admiration for Trump and his anti-immigration policies struck us as odd. I prodded ever so gently: At what point should the president close the gate — before or after your papers are finalized? Without a hint of irony, he clarified that, of course, he was referring to the wrong kind of immigrants. Hours later, I couldn’t shake the notion that we’d made a terrible mistake. Yes, my husband and I refuse to allow politics to define our social circle, but could we remain neutral, knowing that we’d inadvertently recruited a new supporter of Trump’s views on immigration, which we regard as racist — or worse? And if we decide that we cannot, should we break with our extended family by revoking our support of my cousin’s application? Or could we let the cousin know that we find his views on immigration hypocritical and make our ongoing support of his application contingent on his joining the 50 percent of Americans who choose not to exercise their right to vote? Name WithheldI’m not sure you’ve found a great way to model social tolerance. Your cousin sounds pretty blinkered in his views, I’ll grant. But adding one more bigot to the American population isn’t going to make a difference in our politics. And if he ends up, as is most likely, living in one of our great, culturally plural metropolises, his views on immigration may well evolve. Either way, it would be wrong to try to blackmail him into not exercising the right to vote — and ineffectual, because such an agreement would be unenforceable.Nor is it fair, at this point, to pull out from your affidavit of support, unless you think that something you were told and that you therefore attested to was substantially untrue. You do have every right to tell him — like anyone else who expresses political views you consider odious — why you think he’s wrong. Given what you have done for him, he owes it to you to pay attention to what you say. But if your sponsoring your cousin was right, it didn’t become wrong when you learned about his opinions.The point can be broadened. Policies you support in principle aren’t invalidated when their beneficiaries turn out to have vexing or perverse views. We don’t withdraw Social Security Disability Insurance from those who think that its other beneficiaries are largely wastrels. We don’t deny Medicare coverage to those who are skeptical of the program. We can’t give up on public-health measures to reduce suicide simply because suicide rates are highest in ‘‘red state’’ regions that aren’t inclined to back such measures. And a partisan who favors only the expanded immigration of people inclined to support her party isn’t interested in immigration reform; she’s interested in allies. Your cousin’s views, as I say, may evolve; perhaps yours will, too.My stepdaughter-in-law confided in me that she is planning on leaving my stepson. They have a young child. She also informed me that she’s gay. She asked me to be discreet with this information, but I feel compelled to do something; I don’t feel that it’s fair for my stepson to be hit out of the blue. Is there a way for me to encourage her to talk to her husband, or should I say something directly to him? I’m fine with keeping the information about her sexuality secret. It’s more her plan to dump him that is weighing on me. I’m concerned not only for his well-being but also for how this secret could affect my relationship with him if he finds out I knew and didn’t say anything. Name WithheldAdvertisementSupported byBy Nick Corasaniti[What you need to know to start the day: Get New York Today in your inbox.]It began as an operation targeting a cocaine ring in southern New Jersey. But after investigators listened to a wire tap, the case took on an unexpected focus: do-it-yourself firearms made from parts easily found online.The suspects in New Jersey are accused of trying to sell several homemade AR-15 assault-style rifles that are known as ghost guns because they cannot be tracked. The AR-15 rifle is a powerful weapon similar to the one used to kill 11 people last year at a Pittsburgh synagogue.On Monday, New Jersey law enforcement officials announced the arrests of four men who became the first defendants charged under a law passed last year that makes it illegal to buy, manufacture, possess or sell homemade guns in the state. California is the only other state that restricts such weapons, but New Jersey’s version is far more stringent, according to national gun control groups.In fact, one of the suspects is heard on a wiretap specifically citing New Jersey’s law and saying they had to move the weapon sales out of state.“Ghost guns are a real and dangerous menace,” Gurbir Grewal, the attorney general of New Jersey, said in a news conference in Camden where he discussed the case. “They offer criminals, convicted felons, terrorists, domestic abusers, people who we all agree shouldn’t access firearms, the ability to access them.”New Jersey already has some of the country’s toughest gun laws, but buying parts individually and assembling them at home — often with the help of online videos and instructions — could allow people with criminal records and others who would not pass background checks to obtain guns.Marketed to gun enthusiasts who enjoy building their own firearms, companies that sell kits are making it easier for guns to circulate illegally, law enforcement authorities and gun control advocates said.“You go to some of the websites, they offer you discounts if you buy a pack of five or a pack of 10,” said J. Adam Skaggs, the chief counsel and policy director at the Giffords Law Center to Prevent Gun Violence. “Now, you ask yourself, am I going to buy a discounted 10-pack of ghost guns because I want to build myself 10 guns to use at the range? Or am I going to buy a 10-pack if I’m a would-be trafficker who wants to start a little factory of my own and sell these at a markup to people who can’t pass a background check?”Across the country, there have been arrests involving ghost guns with the accused charged with violating other state and federal laws. In New York, a police sergeant was accused of selling ghost guns to members of a motorcycle gang who had criminal records.The difficulty of disrupting illegal ghost gun operations is underscored by the circuitous route that led authorities to the trafficking ring in New Jersey.The investigation began as a probe into a large cocaine ring in Lindenwold, a town in Camden County, Mr. Grewal said. Law enforcement authorities only became aware of the illegal gun trafficking through conversations between two of the alleged members of the criminal network that were secretly recorded.“They changed some law,” one suspect was recorded saying, “so we gotta go over to Philly to pick them up.”A second suspect said, “We just gotta go out of state now.’’The suspects would have parts for guns shipped across the Delaware River to Pennsylvania to get around the New Jersey law, and then would bring them back into the state, Mr. Grewal said.Law enforcement officials eventually recovered six AR-15 rifles made from parts without serial numbers, which were being offered on the black market for $1,100 to $1,300, nearly double the market price for an AR-15 assault-style rifle. They also intercepted parts for two more assault-style rifles that had been shipped to Pennsylvania.Another eight men were also arrested as part of the illicit operation and were charged mostly with drug-related offenses.Though these were the first arrests for trafficking ghost guns under the new law, Mr. Grewal said other ghost guns have turned up in the state. The State Police had recovered “well over 15 in the last year,’’ he said.“We are starting to see them at crime scenes,’’ he added. “We are starting to see them in our investigations. They are not an abstract threat. They are a real threat to public safety.”There are multiple investigations into ghost gun manufacturers and criminal networks, Mr. Grewal said. But, he added, responsibility also rests with manufacturers.“When you see repeatedly the same address and the same individuals at the same location continuing to order parts and parts and parts and parts for the same types of guns, some red flags have to go up,” Mr. Grewal said.Follow Nick Corasaniti on Twitter: @NYTnickc AdvertisementSupported byBy Mike IvesIt was the liquor talking, apparently.Two officials from an anti-immigrant political party in Australia said on Tuesday that an undercover recording of them explaining the political influence that money from the American gun lobby could potentially buy was not what it seemed.Their comments, they said, were just small talk made over rounds of scotch.In the recording, James Ashby, the chief of staff for Pauline Hanson, leader of the One Nation party, is heard to say that his right-wing party could “own” the Australian Senate and House of Representatives with a $20 million donation from the American gun lobby.The recording — by a reporter for Al Jazeera — was made in the United States during a trip last year, just weeks before an Australian law banning foreign political donations took effect.The recording was revealed on Monday in the first part of a two-part Al Jazeera documentary, “How to Sell a Massacre,” for which the Australian reporter Rodger Muller posed for years as a gun-rights advocate.Through the guise of a fake organization called Gun Rights Australia, Mr. Muller introduced Mr. Ashby and Steve Dickson, the One Nation party’s Queensland leader, to representatives from the National Rifle Association and Koch Industries during a trip to the United States in September.On Tuesday, Prime Minister Scott Morrison said on Twitter that reports of One Nation officials soliciting donations from the American gun lobby “to influence our elections & undermine our gun laws that keep us safe are deeply concerning.”Mr. Morrison, the leader of Australia’s Liberal Party, also accused One Nation of trying to “sell Australia’s gun laws to the highest bidders,” and said the revelations were another reason Australians should not vote for the One Nation party in general elections expected in May.Bill Shorten, the leader of the opposition Labor Party, accused One Nation of a “betrayal of the Australian political system.”“The idea of One Nation political party operatives going to the United States, seeking millions of dollars, promising to water down gun law protection in Australia — that was absolutely horrifying,” Mr. Shorten said.But Mr. Ashby told reporters on Tuesday that the meetings with the N.R.A. had been about sourcing technology and gaining “an understanding of how they operate.” He said they were never about requesting $20 million, and that he and Mr. Dickson had traveled to the United States on a fact-finding mission.“The conversations that have been recorded where there is talk of $10 and $20 million dollars — I’ll be the first to admit, we’d arrived in America, we’d got on the sauce, we’d had a few drinks,” Mr. Ashby said.“And that’s where those discussions took place,” he continued. “Not with any potential donors. No one but Rodger Muller, Steve Dickson and myself.”Many Americans can buy a gun in less than an hour. In New Zealand, the process can take weeks or months.Mr. Dickson said that Mr. Muller, the journalist, had “seemed to be a very reasonable guy” — an impression he said was bolstered by Mr. Muller’s Akubra bush hat, akin to an American cowboy hat. He said the conversation was merely a product of “having scotches for three or four hours.”“I never, ever, suspected in my wildest dreams that that guy was employed by a Middle Eastern country, by Al Jazeera, as an Australian spy to interfere in Australian politics,” Mr. Dickson said.Al Jazeera, a satellite network based in Qatar and owned by that country’s government, said in a report on Tuesday that the documentary “provides a rare inside view of how the N.R.A. deliberates over mass shootings and seeks to manipulate media coverage to push its pro-gun agenda.”In an email, Jennifer Baker, the director of public affairs for the N.R.A., called Al Jazeera a “state-owned anti-gun” network and said, “At no time did the N.R.A. contribute funding to any Australian political party or Gun Rights Australia.”The Australian government introduced some of the world’s toughest gun laws in 1996, after a gunman with a semiautomatic rifle killed 35 people in the town of Port Arthur.The rate of intentional gun deaths in Australia had fallen about 33 percent from 1986 to 1996, the year of the Port Arthur massacre. But the decline accelerated after the new gun control measures were enacted, with the rate dropping about 60 percent from 1996 to 2006. President Barack Obama later cited the laws as a potential model for the United States.One Nation’s website says that the focus of its firearms policy is to “move away from trying to criminalize firearms ownership to punishing criminals for the use of firearms to commit crimes.” Among other measures, the party’s platform calls for reducing waiting periods for handgun purchases.In response to the new documentary, One Nation said in a statement that its members always complied with the law. It also called Al Jazeera “a state owned propaganda arm of the Qatari government that supports Islamic extremist groups and are not a legitimate media organization.”In 2017, Ms. Hanson, the party’s leader, sparked controversy by walking into the Australian Senate wearing a burqa as a way of drawing attention to her party’s push to ban full-face coverings in public. The move drew strong criticism from other senators.AdvertisementSupported byBy Sarah MervoshIt took New Zealand just six days to announce an immediate plan to change to the nation’s gun policy after a gunman killed 50 people at two mosques in Christchurch last week.On Thursday, a day after the first victims were laid to rest, Prime Minister Jacinda Ardern announced a national ban on all military-style semiautomatic weapons, all high-capacity ammunition magazines and all parts that allow weapons to be modified into the kinds of guns used in last week’s attack.Ms. Ardern is expected to encounter little resistance in Parliament. The new law could be in place as soon as April 11.It is unclear how the weapons ban will be felt in New Zealand, where there are plenty of guns but relatively few murders. Since 2007, gun homicides have been in the single digits every year except in 2009, when there were 11.But the swift action already stands in stark contrast to the federal response to mass shootings in the United States, which has the highest rate of gun ownership in the world and is one of only a few countries that start with the assumption that gun ownership is a right, not a privilege.After a gunman killed 58 people in Las Vegas in 2017, it took 443 days for the United States to ban bump stocks, the attachments that enable semiautomatic rifles to fire in sustained, rapid bursts, which the gunman used in the attack. And after a mass shooting at a high school in Parkland, Fla., last year led to a wave of student activism, the House of Representatives voted to require background checks for all gun purchasers in February. It was the first significant gun control bill to clear the chamber in a quarter of a century, but it was unlikely to even be taken up in the Republican-controlled Senate.In most countries, mass shootings account for a small proportion of gun deaths. But they are often the political impetus for legislative change that can help prevent other kinds of gun violence, including intimate-partner violence and suicide.Here is a look at how some other countries took action after mass shootings.____Ms. Ardern said the overhauls planned in New Zealand were partially inspired by changes Australia made after a mass shooting there in 1996.After a gunman with a semiautomatic rifle killed 35 people near a popular tourist site in the Tasmanian town of Port Arthur, John Howard, Australia’s conservative prime minister at the time, introduced a federal law to officially make guns a privilege, not a right. Gun owners were forced to provide a valid reason for owning a weapon, such as farming or hunting. Licensing rules were tightened, a 28-day waiting period for gun purchases was imposed and a national gun registry was established.The overhaul also severely restricted firearms, including a ban on almost all automatic and semiautomatic rifles, as well as shotguns. Australia bought back more than 650,000 firearms, to the resentment of many rural gun owners.Australia has not had a shooting as deadly as the Port Arthur massacre since 1996. Research shows the country also saw a decline in homicide and suicide after the legislative change, although researchers disagree about whether the ban can be credited for reducing homicides, which had already been declining.Australia is a much smaller country than the United States and also had fewer barriers to enacting gun control: There is no constitutional right to bear arms, for example, and there are no pro-gun lobbying groups with the influence of the National Rifle Association.____In 1987, a gunman in the southern English town of Hungerford killed 16 people, leading to tough British laws that required shotgun owners to register their weapons and prohibited semiautomatic weapons.Nearly a decade later, another gunman walked into a primary school in Dublane, Scotland, and killed 16 small children and their teacher. The gunman had been granted permits for all four guns used in the shooting, including two semiautomatic pistols.Afterward, the British government took action to limit gun ownership by civilians. By the end of 1997, Parliament had outlawed the private ownership of nearly all handguns.____In 2002, a 19-year-old expelled student returned to his high school in Erfurt, in eastern Germany, armed, and killed 16 people.That year, the German government tightened gun laws, including raising the legal age for carrying sports weapons to 21 from 18 and requiring gun buyers under 25 to present certification that they are medically and psychologically fit.Germany strengthened gun laws even further after another shooting in 2009, when a 17-year-old got his hands on one of his father’s guns and went on a rampage at his school in Winnenden, in southwest Germany, killing 15 people. The new regulations included allowing for random checks on weapons owners.As of 2015, gun-related crimes were far more unusual in Germany than in the United States.____Canada has had tough restrictions on handguns and automatic weapons since the 1930s. But the rules were expanded to include rifles and shotguns after a gunman with a semiautomatic hunting rifle stormed an engineering school in Montreal in 1989.Shouting “I hate feminists,” he separated the women from the men and killed 14 female students before turning the gun on himself.After that shooting, rifles and other long guns had to be registered like handguns and a majority of semiautomatic weapons. Gun owners were also required to obtain a license.But the long gun registry was unpopular in rural and northern areas, and, over the objections of police forces and some provinces, was abolished in 2012.Efforts to keep track of rifle and shotgun sales — the majority of firearms in Canada — continue to be much debated. The province of Quebec introduced its own long gun registry last year.Max Fisher contributed reportingFollow Sarah Mervosh on Twitter: @smervoshAdvertisementSupported byCases like one on the Supreme Court docket this term often lead to more injuries and deaths.By Jonathan M. MetzlDr. Metzl is a professor and the research director at the Safe Tennessee Project.A case before the Supreme Court this term could significantly affect whether densely populated cities like New York have the right to set their own gun policies.At a glance, New York State Rifle and Pistol Association v. City of New York is a limited dispute. It pits residents who have “premises licenses,” which allow them to possess guns only at their homes, against a New York City ordinance that restricts their travel with their weapons to shooting ranges and clubs within city borders. If the petitioners — a gun advocacy group along with three of these individuals — prevail, those with premises licenses will be allowed to take their handguns with them to out-of-town ranges. Not a big deal, right? Actually, it is. The case has implications far broader than sport shooting. If the court decides against the city, New York City and other cities around the country could become far more dangerous places.As a university professor and the research director of a Southern gun violence prevention organization, I’ve spent the past eight years tracking how state and local-level court rulings and legislation promoted as limited in scope lead to sweeping changes in the ways people buy, carry and use firearms. Time and again, I’ve found that seemingly modest relaxation of local gun laws like the one at issue in New York undercut the ability of cities and communities to set their own regulations, and alter ways that people live and die.For instance, in 2007, pro-gun politicians in Missouri repealed a seemingly arcane 1921 law governing the purchase of concealable firearms. Supporters of the repeal (backed by the National Rifle Association) pitched the change as simply easing a tedious and outdated requirement that prospective gun buyers fill out paperwork in person at sheriff’s offices. But this modest action was the first rumbling of an avalanche. Missouri gun proponents built on the repeal to legalize “permitless carry” by anyone 19 years of age or older, nullify local gun-control ordinances, expand “stand your ground” protections and empower citizens to carry weapons into restaurants, bars, streets, schools and seemingly everyplace else. The police even lost the ability to disarm anyone carrying a firearm unless the individual was under arrest. The inability of local government to make gun laws threatened to turn Missouri into the “Wild West,” in the words of an exasperated City Council member in Webster Groves.In Tennessee, N.R.A.-supported politicians pushed through legislation allowing guns in parks. Only after passage did people discover that the law weakened the state’s ability to restrict weapons at concerts and state fairs. A 2017 law in Arkansas permitted guns on college campuses — which made guns legal at Southeast Conference football games and other large sporting events. So-called guns-in-trunks laws in Ohio and some other states allowed employees to store guns and ammunition in their vehicles while at work — followed by jumps in the number of guns stolen out of cars. Sweeping open-carry legislation in Texas meant public libraries could not keep guns out of the stacks.While these changes expand gun rights for certain people, they invariably lead to significant increases in  injuries and deaths. Right-to-carry laws correlate with increases in violent crime and rising homicide and suicide rates, and also raise the likelihood that incidents of conflict like road rage or domestic arguments will turn fatal. For instance, homicides committed with guns in Missouri increased by 25 percent in the three years after the 2007 repeal, and more Missouri guns were recovered in crimes in neighboring states. Gun suicides rose over this period as well. Data from the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention shows that states with the weakest gun laws and highest rates of gun ownership invariably have the highest rates of overall gun mortality. A recent study found that they also have higher rates of mass shootings.Beyond the direct health effects, allowing guns in public spaces changes how we interact with one another. My research shows that people become more wary when they think a stranger might be armed — a mistrust that fuels further gun sales. Racial tensions and stereotypes often accompany this anxiety. “I see white guys walking around Sam’s Club with guns on their hips,” an African-American man in Missouri told me, which he saw as armed racial intimidation.In an ideal world, New York City might serve as a model for effective gun policy. Gun-related injuries and deaths have been falling for the past decade — not coincidentally, over the same period that the city got serious about gun laws. New York has remarkably low rates of gun trauma for a United States city of its size. Municipal and state laws and regulations also effectively limit gun trafficking. Much of this success results from policies that would most likely be in jeopardy should the Rifle and Pistol Association case go against New York — for instance, restrictions on where people can carry guns and prohibitions on tourists’ bringing weapons into the city. Perhaps most important, regulations governing how people carry guns in New York City differ from those applied in parts of the state that have long and respected traditions of firearm ownership, such as in upstate New York.At stake in cases like Rifle and Pistol is the possible nationalization of disastrous policies from pro-gun states — not just loosened gun laws but also pre-emptions of how state or local governments can decide what works best. If the Supreme Court rules in favor of the plaintiffs in any one of these types of cases, the decision could signal that more significant gun control laws might not withstand legal challenges. Additionally, the justices could expand Second Amendment protections beyond the home, an issue left open in previous Supreme Court decisions, and could open the door to overturning longstanding laws governing concealed-carry, gun permitting and other restrictions enacted at the local and state levels.The current composition of the court suggests we should brace for decisions that upend local and state regulations in favor of nationally mandated policies that make it ever easier for people to purchase and carry guns. The nomination of President Trump’s first court appointee, Neil Gorsuch, was buoyed by a $1 million ad campaign by the National Rifle Association. And his second appointee, Brett Kavanaugh, wrote a 2011 circuit court dissent in which he argued that Washington, D.C., could not ban semiautomatic rifles on its streets because the right to bear arms superseded its interest in public safety.Missouri, Tennessee and Washington are not New York City. People are generally not allowed to carry guns around New York City, to safeguard the delicate and at times tense choreography that gives the city its charm. New Yorkers cram into crowded subway cars, brush by one another on busy sidewalks and drive haltingly through traffic-filled streets. This bustle of the everyday builds on often unspoken communal understandings of neighborliness and trust.But imagine a New York where more and more of your neighbors carry guns. If the Supreme Court sides with the complainants in Rifle and Pistol, you won’t need to imagine.Jonathan M. Metzl is a professor at Vanderbilt University and the author of “Dying of Whiteness: How the Politics of Racial Resentment is Killing America’s Heartland.”AdvertisementSupported byBy Simon Romero and Timothy WilliamsALBUQUERQUE — New Mexico’s governor is feuding with county sheriffs, accusing them of going “rogue” by refusing to enforce new gun control legislation. Counties in Oregon are passing militia-backed measures against stricter gun laws. Washington State is warning sheriffs they could face legal action if they don’t run enhanced background checks approved by voters.As states have approved dozens of restrictive gun control measures since the shooting at Marjory Stoneman Douglas High School in Parkland, Fla., last year, efforts to resist such laws have gathered strength around the nation as rural gun owners say their rights are being violated.“This is just a gun-grab measure,” Shane Ferrari, the sheriff of San Juan County, said of a provision that requires background checks on most gun sales in New Mexico, signed into law this month by Gov. Michelle Lujan Grisham, a Democrat.Sheriff Ferrari, a Republican, said he believed that the new law was a violation of the Second Amendment and the state’s existing gun laws, and that he would not enforce it unless a court ruling told him to do so. And all but a handful of counties in New Mexico have expressed similar opposition.The impasses — between local sheriffs and elected officials in states now controlled by Democrats — are raising the specter of a constitutional showdown over enforcement of the new gun laws. Some of the gun rights advocates say they are simply drawing inspiration from strategies employed by liberal critics of the Trump administration: They compare their efforts to declare “Second Amendment sanctuary” counties to so-called sanctuary cities opposing the federal government’s immigration crackdown.“Critics are calling these new laws Gestapo-style tactics when that’s the furthest thing from the truth,” said Victor Snover, the mayor of Aztec, a town in San Juan County that was shaken by a school shooting in 2017 in which a former student killed two students and himself.Mr. Snover, a Democrat who is also a teacher at Aztec High School, called the measure “common sense and reasonable.” He added, “But unfortunately we live in a hyperpartisan time when avoiding tragedies isn’t viewed as reasonable.”In New Mexico and elsewhere, the disputes generally reflect tension between cities that support stricter gun laws and rural areas that want to bolster protections for gun owners. The pushback against new laws generally seeks to maintain existing gun ownership rights; most have not yet been challenged in court.The disputes around the country over the gun control measures raise vexing questions about the rule of law. Governors claim that local sheriffs cannot pick which laws to enforce, but some states have already grappled with low compliance with other gun laws.“There’s a real tension on this issue between urban and rural identities that doesn’t necessarily fit nicely into party loyalties,” said Lonna Atkeson, a political-science professor at the University of New Mexico. She noted that some of the counties vehemently opposing the state’s new gun control legislation are solidly Democratic.Elsewhere, dozens of counties in Illinois have approved “gun sanctuary” resolutions meant to signal local discontent with gun control measures approved by the State Legislature, which is dominated by Democrats.Among the measures approved by Illinois last year was one requiring a 72-hour waiting period for all gun purchases and a so-called red flag bill, which allows relatives and law enforcement officials to ask courts to confiscate firearms from people deemed a threat to themselves or others.In Oregon, where the State Legislature is currently debating several gun control measures — including a bill that would forbid the sale of assault rifles to people under 21 — voters in eight counties have approved ordinances stating that residents have the right to own semiautomatic weapons and high-capacity magazines, even if federal and state law bans them.Some of the most public discontent, however, has come in Washington, where a divide between rural and urban areas has become a recurring political split.In November, nearly 60 percent of Washington State voters approved an initiative prohibiting anyone under 21 from purchasing a semiautomatic rifle and requiring buyers to undergo enhanced background checks. (State law already barred those under 21 from buying a handgun.) Long guns that employ manual operations, including pumps and bolts, could still be purchased at age 18.The law also mandated a 10-day waiting period and completion of a firearms training course. The initiative also allowed prosecutors to charge gun owners with crimes if the gun was stored improperly and someone unable to legally own a gun used it to commit a crime.Most of the law is scheduled to take effect July 1, though the Second Amendment Foundation, a nonprofit group based in Washington State that supports gun rights, has filed a lawsuit seeking to block it.Already, though, more than a dozen sheriffs in Washington have said they will refuse to enforce the law.That has set up a showdown between them and Bob Ferguson, the attorney general.Mr. Ferguson has warned the sheriffs that they have a legal responsibility to enforce the new law in the same manner they are sworn to uphold other laws prohibiting criminal activity.“Local law enforcement officials are entitled to their opinions about the constitutionality of any law, but those personal views do not absolve us of our duty to enforce Washington laws and protect the public,” Mr. Ferguson wrote in a letter last month.But Bob Songer, the sheriff of Klickitat County, a rural county in southern Washington, said that the law violated gun owners’ rights.“There is no way in hell I’m going to be going after their guns if they are honest citizens,” he said. “What I’ve told people is: I’m not giving up my guns, and I don’t expect them to give up theirs.”The sheriff dismissed the pressure from the state’s attorney general to abide by the law.“They are not the boss of the sheriff,” he said. “The only bosses I have are the voters of Klickitat County.”Simon Romero reported from Albuquerque and Timothy Williams from New York.AdvertisementSupported byBy Danny HakimThe flash point was Thomas the Tank Engine.Last September, the National Rifle Association’s famously combative spokeswoman, Dana Loesch, provoked widespread outrage when she took to the gun group’s streaming service to mock ethnic diversity on the popular children’s program “Thomas & Friends,” portraying the show’s talking trains in Ku Klux Klan hoods. Now, growing unease over the site’s inflammatory rhetoric, and whether it has strayed too far from the N.R.A.’s core gun-rights mission, has put its future in doubt.The site, NRATV, is a central part of the organization’s messaging apparatus. Since its creation in 2016, it has adopted an increasingly apocalyptic, hard-right tone, warning of race wars, describing Barack Obama as a “fresh-faced flower-child president,” calling for a march on the Federal Bureau of Investigation and comparing journalists to rodents.In recent weeks, in a rare airing of internal debate at the N.R.A., two prominent board members expressed concerns about NRATV to The New York Times. Their statements were released through the N.R.A. itself, amid what was described as an internal review of NRATV and its future.“Since the founding of NRATV, some, including myself and other board members, have questioned the value of it,” Marion Hammer, the group’s most formidable lobbyist and a key adviser to its chief executive, Wayne LaPierre, said in a statement. “Wayne has told me and others that NRATV is being constantly evaluated — to make sure it works in the best interest of the organization and provides an appropriate return on investment.”The reassessment underscores a debate within the N.R.A. over how broad its activism should be. And it comes as the organization faces a storm of challenges, including a series of mass shootings that has created a new generation of gun-control activists.Congressional investigations into the N.R.A.’s possible Russia ties were energized after Maria Butina, a suspected Russian agent, pleaded guilty in December to using the N.R.A. in a political influence operation. And the organization, incorporated in New York, may have a potent foe in Letitia James, the state’s recently elected attorney general, who has vowed to investigate the N.R.A.’s tax-exempt status.As falling membership dues put the N.R.A. under further strain, board members have also expressed concern about the size of payments to the ad firm that produces NRATV, Ackerman McQueen. The firm and its affiliates pocketed $40 million from the N.R.A. in 2017; billings directly to Ackerman have increased nearly 50 percent since 2015. One prominent host, Dan Bongino, left amid cutbacks at NRATV, but he said the site had tried to retain him.Ackerman, a partner to the gun group  since the “I’m the N.R.A.” campaign of the 1980s, runs the NRATV Twitter account, has done polling work for the organization and revamped its gun safety program for children. It has also been credited with a slick makeover of Mr. LaPierre — who, in the words of one former N.R.A. lobbyist, previously resembled an “introverted chess champion.”Mr. LaPierre’s wife, Susan, has worked for an Ackerman subsidiary, and there has come to be a revolving door between the two companies, with many employees having worked by turns for both NRATV and Ackerman.Oliver L. North, the N.R.A. president, has a contract with Ackerman, though the N.R.A. would not disclose its size. As part of the relationship, Mr. North, a former Fox News pundit, hosts media programming and special events, like the show “American Heroes,” which recently began airing on NRATV.The N.R.A., a nonprofit, has also directed $18 million since 2010 to a private company jointly owned by executives of Ackerman and the N.R.A., according to records and interviews.“It is clear to me that NRATV is an experiment and Wayne is evaluating the future of the enterprise,” Willes K. Lee, a board member who leads the N.R.A. Outreach Committee, said in a statement to The Times.After the Thomas the Tank Engine video, he said, Mr. LaPierre appeared “livid and embarrassed” in a meeting with the outreach group. “He apologized to the entire committee and spent hours listening to our concerns.”Ms. Loesch has emerged as NRATV’s most visible host, deriding gun-control advocates as “tragedy-dry-humping whores” and vowing to combat the left with what she called the “clenched fist of truth” — a body part that the comedian John Oliver said was located “a little past the bent elbow of nonsense.” In one video, she warned The Times, “We’re coming for you”; in another, she threatened to burn a copy of the newspaper.Chuck Holton, an NRATV correspondent, attributed terrorist activity in Europe to “the broader problem of multiculturalism and socialism” and to “gender-bending.” He also claimed that left-wing groups, the billionaire George Soros and the Venezuelan government were trying “to influence the 2018 midterms by sending Honduran migrants north in the thousands.”Grant Stinchfield, a host, claimed that “all radicalized terrorists are Muslims,” overlooking mass shooters like Dylann Roof, who killed nine black churchgoers in Charleston, S.C., in 2015.Such far-ranging commentary has raised questions among some N.R.A. members about the scope of the organization’s messaging.“The N.R.A. shouldn’t be putting this out,” said Jeff Knox, an N.R.A. member who runs the Firearms Coalition, a smaller advocacy organization. “It’s not gun rights; it’s red meat for the hard right.”Mr. Knox’s father, Neal, was an N.R.A. board member who played a leading role in an effort to fire Ackerman in the 1990s amid discontent over its growing influence. A faction loyal to Mr. LaPierre ultimately prevailed, leading to a purge of the board and allowing the two organizations to become more deeply intertwined.“Why are we getting so involved in left-right politics instead of sticking close to our issue, the Second Amendment?” the younger Mr. Knox asked.Ackerman declined to comment, but in a recent interview in The Oklahoman, Revan McQueen, the firm’s chief executive, said his company’s approach was evolving from pure advertising to a “philosophy of branded news.” As Ackerman’s website puts it, “Every brand must be its own media company.”To that end, the firm has created video networks for the Chickasaw Nation and the Integris health care system of Oklahoma, though their content is relatively benign. A recent episode of ChickasawTV, for example, featured a visit to an art gallery. Over on NRATV, a host was calling liberalism “a mental disorder.”Beyond NRATV, the N.R.A. backed Ackerman’s performance.“When Ackerman McQueen began working with the N.R.A., the association was little more than a fledgling grass-roots operation,” Andrew Arulanandam, an N.R.A. spokesman, said in a statement.“The N.R.A. is now the most effective advocacy organization of its kind,” he said, adding that the firm had created “a national platform for the N.R.A.” and that it was “an important partner.”During the N.R.A. power struggle in the 1990s, a board member filed a complaint with the Federal Election Commission, claiming that an N.R.A. contract with an Ackerman subsidiary “was done without any ‘request for proposals’; any bidding process; and no competitive bidding.”The commission decided in a 6-0 vote not to take action, but criticisms have persisted.“The N.R.A. is willing to play fast and loose with tax regulations,” said Marcus S. Owens, a partner at Loeb & Loeb who served for a decade as director of the Exempt Organizations Division of the Internal Revenue Service.Ms. James, the New York attorney general, presents a new threat. Last year, she told Ebony magazine that the N.R.A. held itself “out as a charitable organization” but was actually “a terrorist organization.”William A. Brewer III, the N.R.A.’s outside counsel, said Ms. James had given no indication when she was a candidate that “the N.R.A. had done anything improper,” adding that she had instead promised “a taxpayer-funded fishing expedition.”A number of  transactions could draw scrutiny. Since 2010, the N.R.A. has paid $18 million to a company that produces “Under Wild Skies,” a hunting show on NRATV. Tyler Schropp, the N.R.A.’s advancement director, came to the organization in 2010 from Ackerman, and had a stake in the production company until at least 2017, but “no longer holds any interest,” Mr. Brewer said.Federal rules restrict transactions that confer economic benefits on key executives of tax-exempt organizations.Mr. Brewer described Mr. Schropp’s stake as “a minuscule interest” that the N.R.A. found not to be objectionable. Payments related to “Under Wild Skies” emerged only recently in N.R.A. tax filings.Other issues unrelated to Ackerman could also surface. The N.R.A. has transferred more than $100 million since 2012 from an affiliated charity that also lent the N.R.A. $5 million in 2017. Donations to the charity, the N.R.A. Foundation, are tax-deductible, while those to the N.R.A. are not.“If you’re doing a program that’s charitable, you run it through the charity,” said David G. Samuels, a partner at Duval & Stachenfeld who served in the charities bureau of the New York Attorney General’s Office, which oversees tax-exempt organizations. Such practices raise “red flags,” he said.Like some nonprofits, the N.R.A. has been lucrative for its top executives. Mr. LaPierre’s compensation rose from less than $200,000 in the mid-1990s to nearly $1.5 million in 2017. It spiked to more than $5 million in 2015, largely because of a retirement plan payout.A review of public records found that the N.R.A., which has about 550 employees, has disclosed that 41 employees, contractors, vendors or consultants have relevant family relationships to others connected to the organization, including a “niece-in-law” of Mr. LaPierre who was hired as a consultant.“The N.R.A. strives to comply with all applicable regulations,” Mr. Brewer said, adding that the organization has a “conflict-of interest-policy” and that “vendor agreements are reviewed and approved” by the board’s audit committee when appropriate.With New York regulators circling, it’s no surprise that the state’s politicians have become fodder for NRATV — particularly the governor, Andrew M. Cuomo, whose administration is already engaged in a legal fight with the gun group. Recently, the site even targeted Albany, describing it as “Graft City.”Whatever happens to NRATV, few expect the N.R.A. to become much less combative. Mr. LaPierre, in a speech this month, described the organization’s approach as “full-contact advocacy,” adding, “We are going to fight back against anyone who attempts to silence us.”An earlier version of this article referred imprecisely to Dan Bongino’s separation from NRATV. While he left the video streaming service amid a round of layoffs, it is unclear whether his job was among those eliminated.Susan C. Beachy and Jack Begg contributed research.AdvertisementSupported byBy Mihir ZaveriPeople under 21 are no longer able to buy semiautomatic assault rifles in Washington as of Jan 1. It is the first of several new state measures intended to reduce gun violence. The National Rifle Association has already filed suit.Previously, state law barred the assault weapons’ sale to those under 18. The new rules, approved by voters in a ballot initiative in November, come alongside dozens of moves by other states to strengthen gun control regulations in the absence of federal action.“It is a meaningful step in the right direction,” said Christian Heyne, legislative director at the Coalition to Stop Gun Violence, on Washington’s initiative. “Gun violence on the whole is such a complex problem. We need to have complex solutions, comprehensive solutions. This is a part of that conversation.”In addition to the age restrictions, Washington’s new rules state that gun dealers must wait 10 days before delivering semiautomatic assault rifles they sell. That is designed, in part, to prevent impulsive action. The rules also require anyone buying a semiautomatic assault rifle to have completed a gun safety training in the last five years. The measure also imposes criminal penalties for unsafe gun storage, and requires more extensive background checks for purchases of the assault weapons.Most of the new rules take effect in July.“Every component is extremely important,” said Renee Hopkins, chief executive of the Alliance for Gun Responsibility, the group that sponsored the ballot initiative. “This package really looks to reduce suicide, reduce accidental shootings and also reduce everyday gun violence, interpersonal gun violence, that we see playing out.”The Nov. 6 ballot initiative passed with more than 59 percent of the vote.According to the Giffords Law Center to Prevent Gun Violence, state legislatures in 2018 passed 69 gun control measures, more than any other year since the Newtown, Conn., massacre in 2012, and more than three times the number passed in 2017. They included adding or improving state background checks, increasing regulations for concealed firearms and restricting firearm use for domestic abusers.Opponents of Washington’s ballot initiative said its provisions to safely store guns would make them “unavailable” for self-defense. It also said that banning sale of semiautomatic assault rifles to 18- to 20-year-olds “would leave already vulnerable segments of the population defenseless to attack.” The N.R.A. and the Second Amendment Foundation have filed a lawsuit saying that the age restrictions violate the Constitution.But gun control groups say public pressure has been mounting in response to recent high-profile mass shootings, including the slaughter at a country musical festival in Las Vegas that left 58 people dead and hundreds wounded in October 2017; and multiple shootings in 2018 at schools around the country, particularly at Marjory Stoneman Douglas High School in Parkland, Fla. In that shooting, a 19-year-old man killed 17 people with an AR-15 semiautomatic rifle in February.Mr. Heyne said Washington’s move, while not unique, is a “bellwether” for what could happen in the rest of the country.Gun-related deaths are increasing. The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention reported in December that the nearly 40,000 people who died from firearms injuries in the United States in 2017 was more than any other year since at least 1968. Nearly two-thirds of those deaths were suicides. The rate of gun deaths also increased to 12 deaths for every 100,000 people, the highest since the mid-1990s.Some states like California and Connecticut have near-total bans on assault weapons, according to the Giffords Law Center. Assault weapons, generally thought to be more lethal, have been used in deadly mass shootings like those in Parkland, Las Vegas, Newtown and San Bernardino, Calif.A New York Times analysis published in February found that 173 people have been killed since 2007 in mass shootings involving AR-15s. Yet they don’t make up a large chunk of gun violence in America, Mr. Heyne said.Ms. Hopkins said that existing laws already ban the sale of handguns to those under 21, and that the age change for semiautomatic assault rifles seeks to make the law consistent for the different type of firearms.Gun control figured heavily in the 2018 election, as gun control groups outspent the N.R.A. Congress has generally failed to pass any meaningful legislation. A federal ban on the manufacture of certain “assault weapons” took effect in 1994. It expired in 2004.No attempts to reinstate the federal assault weapons ban have been successful. In December, the Trump administration banned bump stocks, attachments that enable semiautomatic rifles to fire in sustained, rapid bursts.Gun rights organizations have succeeded in blocking other proposals at the federal level. And they are vowing to fight the states as well.“The N.R.A. will fight to overturn this unconstitutional initiative,” Chris W. Cox, executive director of N.R.A.’s Institute for Legislative Action, said of the Washington law, when the lawsuit was announced. “We will not sit idly by while elitist anti-gun activists attempt to deny everyday Americans their fundamental right to self-defense.”The N.R.A. did not respond to a request for comment Wednesday after the law took effect.“The gun lobby is trying to thwart the will of nearly 60 percent of Washingtonian voters who supported common-sense gun reform in our state,” Bob Ferguson, the state attorney general, said in a statement Wednesday. “We were not surprised the gun lobby filed a lawsuit. I look forward to representing the people of the State of Washington in court against the N.R.A.”Follow Mihir Zaveri on Twitter: @MihirZaveri.AdvertisementtranscriptHosted by Michael Barbaro, produced by Clare Toeniskoetter and Alexandra Leigh Young, and edited by Lisa Tobin“It’s hard to differentiate what’s from the shooting and what’s from regular teenage anxiety.” Four students who survived the massacre at their high school told us how it had changed them.Thursday, February 14th, 2019michael barbaroFrom The New York Times, I’m Michael Barbaro. This is “The Daily.” Today: It’s been one year since the shooting at Marjory Stoneman Douglas High School in Parkland. “Daily” producer Clare Toeniskoetter went to Florida this week to check in on some of the students we met last year. It’s Thursday, February 14.clare toeniskoetterLast year, a few weeks after the Marjory Stoneman Douglas High School shooting, my colleague Jack Healy went down to Parkland and interviewed a group of freshman girls who were in the first classroom that the shooter went into, classroom 1216.studentI’ve thought about this, about being in a school shooting. And the one thing that I’ve always said that I would do is text my mom, “I love you,” and, like, “Thank you for everything.” And I was so mad at everything that I wasn’t going to be able to get to do that, and I was going to die and not let my mom know that I loved her.clare toeniskoetterAnd in that classroom, these girls saw eight of their classmates get shot.studentAnd then I just hear a few shots happen over here. And then I see Alyssa, and she’s just standing like this. And then she, like, falls back.clare toeniskoetterAnd three of them were killed. So Jack interviewed the girls, but I was the producer working on “The Daily” episode. And over the past year, I just haven’t stopped thinking about them. I’ve thought about them each time there’s been another mass shooting. I’ve thought about them on election night. And I thought about them just pretty much every time I’ve seen a group of teenagers. So as we approach the one-year anniversary of the shooting, I wanted to check back in with them.flight attendantPlease take a moment to locate the zone on your boarding pass.clare toeniskoetterSo I flew down to Florida, got the group back together at one of their houses. They grabbed a few snacks. And they all settled in on a couch.clare toeniskoetter (to the students)Tell me who you each are.jadeI’m Jade.clare toeniskoetterJade. And Jade, how old are you?jadeUh, 15.maddieI’m Maddie and I’m 15.clare toeniskoetterMaddie.brookeI’m Brooke and I’m 15.clare toeniskoetterBrooke.edenEden and I’m 15.clare toeniskoetterAnd Eden.clare toeniskoetter (to the students)And you’re about to turn 16?edenYep.clare toeniskoetterAnd they immediately just started talking about the last time they were all here together in the same room.edenI feel like it’s like after you see somebody in a movie, and it’s during something, and then you know when they have the 10 years later, and they cut their hair, and they — I feel like that now.jadeI mean, I did change my hair. [LAUGHTER]edenI feel like a different person than who I was when I was last sitting here.clare toeniskoetterWhat do you think you felt like then? What do you feel like now?edenI feel like now, I don’t know, in a way I feel burnt out a little, just like — I feel like I’ve been through hell. Like hell.maddieThis year has been exhausting.edenAnd at that moment, I feel like I was so innocent.clare toeniskoetterWhat were those first weeks back like? So it was about halfway through the school year. And what was a typical day like? Did it feel like normal school at all?brookeNo. Being together was the only good part about that.edenIt was weird. Because the setting was different. And then it was just that feeling in the room.jadeThat emptiness.edenIt’s like, oh my God, the kid who sat there died.clare toeniskoetterWas there ever a day when it felt normal, ever, like in your whole last school year?brookeIt kind of never feels normal. We have a new normal, I feel like. My normal is seeing the 1200 building every day and having flashbacks and then moving on.jadeOr like, oh, that happened.brookeExactly.edenAfter three months, I would say, is when it wasn’t all we thought about all the time. Like that wasn’t the feeling I had.jadeLike, summer was a good —maddieSummer was a good time.clare toeniskoetterYeah?maddieYeah, I’m not going to lie.jadeSummer was like, I was at my happiest.maddieWe were finally away from the building every day.clare toeniskoetterI wasn’t sure if summer would feel good or bad, being — because then you don’t have that built-in support group. But were you — did you stay with other Douglas students enough during your summers?brookeAll of our friends and stuff like that completely understand. At least for me, I talk about it with them all the time. And I for sure feel like I can trust them more than I can a therapist. Because they understand me and they know me. So it’s a lot more personal.clare toeniskoetterSo your friends who were also in school.jadeYeah, exactly.edenI don’t talk about it with anyone. Like, no one. I just can’t.clare toeniskoetterNot even friends?edenNot even my closest friend. It’s really hard for me to talk about it, because my closest friends, most of them weren’t in the building. And it’s just like, what is it going to help me to talk about it? They’re going to feel bad for me, and then what?clare toeniskoetterHow’s it feel right now?brookeI think it’s different when there’s someone in the building. Because all of my friends that weren’t, they feel like they can’t even talk to me about their day, because they don’t want to make me feel bad that they’re talking about it — which, like, that sucks, because I want my friends to be able to talk to me about it. Like, I have no problem with people who weren’t in the building talking. Just don’t act like where I was and where you were is the same thing. That’s my only thing.edenDon’t even try to compare it. It’s just like, it’s different.maddieIt’s different. It’s very, very different.brookeIt’s completely different.clare toeniskoetterShifting into the new school year, how did it feel coming back?maddieI hated it.edenIt was awful.clare toeniskoetterYeah?jadeIt was just like, oh, like, oh.brookeWe’re back here?clare toeniskoetterSo one of the things, from my understanding about going back to school last year, is everyone who was at the school was there on the day of the shooting. But then when you came back to school this year, for this new school year, there’s now a new class. There are freshmen who weren’t there. What is that like?maddieNot good.clare toeniskoetterWhy?brookeThe thing is, some of them are actually very nice and very understanding and accept the fact that they don’t know anything about it and they’re not going to ask, because they know it’s disrespectful. And then the other half are just —maddieWish that they were there.brookeJust wish they were there and are trying so hard to get attention from it, in any way possible.maddieThey post pictures of the building. [INTERPOSING VOICES] Like, you’ve never even —edenHave photoshoots.brookeAnd they think it’s funny.maddieYou’ve never even been in the building. How are you going to post a picture of it?jadeUnless their sibling was at open house, I don’t know.brookeBut they think it’s funny. And they’re dropping textbooks, popping things.maddieOh, my god.brookeLike, someone that has serious PTSD could be right next to you.clare toeniskoetterWait, so they are walking through the halls and making loud noises, dropping textbooks. [INTERPOSING VOICES]brookeThey do it in their classes all the time, for fun.jadeI was taking a math test — it’s a thing.clare toeniskoetterThat’s so cruel.maddieOne of them, after the pep rally, I was walking back to class to portables, and we were right in front of the freshman building. And one of them popped a water bottle right in back of me. Right in front of the freshman building.clare toeniskoetterSo it’s more than just one nasty kid. It’s a lot of them.maddieThey just don’t have — they’re not considerate. They don’t know what they’re doing.brookeThey don’t give empathy to the situation.maddieThey don’t think about it.brookeExactly. And it might be because they don’t really understand. But if you don’t understand, then just don’t do anything. Don’t try to be funny, because it’s not funny.clare toeniskoetterYeah. It’s so — hearing you as sophomores talk about the freshmen, like, there’s this dynamic in any high school experience of feeling like, now I’m older and I hate those freshmen. But of course, it’s completely different for you.brooke— this whole separation, this whole divide.edenThere’s a line.maddieI have no issue with them on any other problem, except for the shooting.brookeAnything else, I don’t even really care.clare toeniskoetterYeah. What do you think is the ideal? What, if you were a freshman this year, what do you think would be the best way?edenJust don’t talk about it.studentJust be respectful.brookeDon’t act like you know anything about it. Because you don’t. [INTERPOSING VOICES]edenDon’t bring it up. Ever.maddieDon’t talk about it like you know what we went through.brookeThey don’t know anything.maddieBecause I know that you were scared and you didn’t know what was going on.clare toeniskoetterBecause a lot of them were next door in the middle school and got evacuated. But they weren’t —edenIt was different.jadeIt was really scary for them. But for us, it’s terrifying.brookeIt’s just different.clare toeniskoetterYeah.brookeI heard it right in my ear, in the hallways. So don’t act like it’s the same.clare toeniskoetterDoes all of this, does it make you feel older?edenI feel like I’m, like, a 90-year-old woman.brookeI feel like we didn’t really — we kind of fast-tracked. [INTERPOSING VOICES]maddieYeah, telling stories about her life.jadeAnd I feel really bad for —brookeI feel bad celebrating my birthday sometimes.edenI feel bad getting my license. I feel bad —brookeWhen they can’t —clare toeniskoetterMilestones. Every milestone feels —edenIt’s really hard.brookeI just feel so guilty.jadeJust getting up every day. Sometimes.brookeLike, they’re supposed to be here. Like, that whole thing wasn’t supposed to happen.maddieYou gotta talk about it.brookeI kinda feel like our childhood got ruined.jadeIt did, yeah.brookeI feel like it’s not there anymore.maddieLike, our high school, everybody says high school is the best time of your life, along with college. But we don’t get that.edenBut it’s not because it’s consuming our lives.maddieYeah. It’s never going to be like that anymore. It’s never going to be like, oh, it’s high school.brookeLike, no cares in the world.edenWhen your parents are like, oh, when I was in high school, this. It’s like, when I was in high school, all I can think about would be the shooting.jadeYeah.edenIt’s hard to differentiate what’s from the shooting and what’s from regular teenage anxiety. Because everybody has anxiety. Everybody. So for me, it’s like, I’ll get those times where I’ll feel like there’s literally — I’m just like, I can’t, I can’t. And I don’t know if it’s from the shooting, and I don’t know what it’s from.brookeIt’s a combination of things, not just [INAUDIBLE] the shooting.edenThat sets the basis for it.maddieSometimes the stress of the shooting has a big impact on regular teenage stresses. So it’ll make your normal teenage stresses more stressful.edenEven more dramatic.clare toeniskoetterBecause you guys are all 15, about to turn 16. So what’s going on in your lives outside of this? You’re about to get driver’s licenses.jadeYeah, exactly.maddieSchool.clare toeniskoetterDating.maddieI mean, right now in life we’re worried about next year. Next year’s going to be our junior year, which is, like, the most important year.clare toeniskoetterCollege.jadeDefinitely, I’m thinking about that the most.maddieStarting to think about colleges, which is scary, but —edenSo scary.maddieSo scary.brookeAnd I’m really scared to apply to colleges, because I don’t want to be accepted just because I’m a Douglas kid. Like, I don’t want that to be the reason why —edenI don’t want that to be my —brookeI get above someone else.eden— the definition of who I am.brookeExactly. I don’t want to look good to your college just because I was in the shooting.edenI just feel like time’s going by so fast.jadeIt really is. I can’t believe it’s almost been a year.edenIt’s crazy.jadeAnd that’s what I’m scared of.brookeI feel like it was, like, yesterday.edenThat, to me, is crazy.jadeLike, I relive it every day, for me at least.maddieI think because we’ve just been living in it this whole year, it just hasn’t gone away. It’s not something that —jadeLike, it surrounds. When I look back on the person I was exactly a year ago from today, she would have not acted like this at all. She would have been a completely different person.clare toeniskoetterYou think you were fundamentally changed?jadeYeah, definitely.brookeYeah. I think everyone is. I don’t think anyone can mentally be the same after what we went through.edenIt’s a part of you.brookeExactly.jadeSometimes I’ll think about when I’m 20, I’ll think about, like, oh, that happened — what would that be? Seven years ago. Like, that’s scary.maddieYeah. I think about when —jadeIt’s been that long.maddie— we have kids, how are we going to send our kids to school?brookeIt’s so hard for me to want to have kids in a place like this.maddieHow are we going to have kids and send them to school like that?brookeI’ve wanted kids my whole life. But I don’t know if I want them anymore.edenIf my kid will have to go through what I went through, I’d just feel so bad.brookeIt makes me not want to have kids. And I’ve wanted kids my whole life.maddieObviously, in the very, very, very far future.brookeNo, yeah. Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah.maddieWe’re talking about kids in the way future.edenActually, six more months. [LAUGHTER] [MUSIC]maddieI always say this. I always say this. Everybody who goes through mass shootings don’t go to the site of the mass shooting every single day and see the building where it happened every single day. We do.brookeA part of me kind of wants to go in.maddieI want to go in so bad.edenI want to go in so bad. I still do.maddieI think we all agreed in 1216 —brookeIt would give us nice closure.maddie— that we want to go in. [INTERPOSING VOICES]edenLast year, we were saying we all — I still want to go in.jadeAt the same time, I don’t want to see that.brookeLike, I want to —maddieI just want to see how they left it.jadeYeah, that’s what I want to see. I want to grab my English binder. [LAUGHTER]edenThere’s just something so curious about how we went there every single day. I was in that building every single day.brookeI had, like, four classes in there.jadeI had two.edenIt’s so weird to me.clare toeniskoetterWhat do you think you would do if you could go in?jadeOh, I’d go in, just walk.maddieI would just walk. [INTERPOSING VOICES]clare toeniskoetterTogether?jadeThe first thing I’d do is go in our classroom.maddieI’ve had dreams about —edenMe, too.jadeI don’t want to see the blood stains.brookeI have it kind of engraved of a thought with just, like, Valentine’s stuff everywhere.maddieOr backpacks. Well, I guess we’re going to see it. We’re going to see it when the trial happens.clare toeniskoetterYou’ll be able to go in?maddieNo, we’re not going to be able to go in. But we’ll see pictures.clare toeniskoetterYou’ll see photos.brookeI still want to see it for myself.maddieI know. [INTERPOSING VOICES]brookeHas anyone had time travel dreams or anything like that?maddieWe sound like literal psychopaths right now. We sound like psychopaths.jadeWe sound insane.clare toeniskoetterTime travel dream?brookeBecause I — it’s a recurring nightmare dream I have. I don’t really have anything about going forward. But I always have this dream where I’m able to go back to that date, and I try to warn people. And I try to warn Alaina, because she was my closest friend in that class. And she won’t listen to me. No one will listen to me.edenI had that, too. And I remember I had a dream, and I showed Alyssa my tattoo, because I have a tattoo.clare toeniskoetterWhat’s your tattoo of?edenIt has the room number on it.clare toeniskoetterDo you all have them?brookeNo.edenAnd I remember I was, in my dream, I was showing her. I was showing her in my dream. And she was, like —maddieThree hearts for them?edenNot believing me. And I was like, look, I’m telling you, there was a shooting. Don’t go to class. And she went anyways.jadeI would have just, like, kidnapped her at the front, like, you’re coming with me.edenI didn’t know you got a tattoo.clare toeniskoetterCan you tell me what they both are?maddieYeah. So mine is, the top is the date in Roman numerals, 2-14-18. The second layer is the three hearts for Alex, Alyssa and Alaina. And the third layer is 1216, which is our classroom number.clare toeniskoetterAnd what’s yours?edenAnd then mine is, like, a flower, which is kind of, if you see, there’s leaves on it. And that represents the growth from what happened. And then there’s the room number, 1216, and then there’s three little flower petals things, for Alaina, Alex and Alyssa.maddieMakes me feel close to them. I love that.edenI like it. But some days, I’m like, I wish I didn’t have to get this tattoo. Like, I hate how it’s part of, it’s permanent. And so is the shooting. It’s permanent on you. [INTERPOSING VOICES]brookeThe thing is, I’m always going to think of it, and I want that there.maddieYeah, I think the significance of getting something permanent on you is that just like the tattoo, the shooting is going to be with you for the rest of your life.brookeFor the rest of your life. [MUSIC]edenFor, like, three months after the shooting, I would always be searching up videos of the shooting and watching them over and over.brookeSame, same, same.clare toeniskoetterWhy? [INTERPOSING VOICES]edenBecause I needed, I needed that closure. I needed to actually see that was real.brookeI think that’s why a lot of us want to go in the room. We just want closure. Because I have no closure on anything.edenAll we have is our memory. And that’s not as reliable, to me, as a picture. [INTERPOSING VOICES]brookeAnd that’s going to fade.clare toeniskoetterDo you think you’ll ever have closure?edenNo.brookeProbably not.edenMaybe.clare toeniskoetterHow could you have?maddieHopefully.edenThe building. The videos.brookeLike, I want to have closure. But I don’t know if it’s attainable.edenI think after the actual videos of it happening, I would love to see that.jadeI started —clare toeniskoetterAnd that exists, in some —edenI think it will.brookeThey exist.edenThey have videos.jadeI’ve seen a picture.maddieThe hallway.jadeBut that’s it.maddieWell, I watch everything that comes out. Everything that comes out, I watch. Every article that comes out about it, I watch. Because I like to know everything that happened. Even though I know, I just don’t — I’d just like to —edenThey don’t have the proof of it.maddieBecause then I don’t look like an idiot telling my story, like, oh, yeah.clare toeniskoetterIt’s validating.maddieYeah. [MUSIC]clare toeniskoetterWhat are you planning on doing this Thursday?maddieCemeteries. More cemeteries. Vigils. I’m going to two cemeteries.jadeAre you going to Alyssa’s?maddieI’m going to — is Alex buried there?edenYeah, they’re right next to — they’re right, literally so close to each other. I went to Alyssa’s, and I saw Max there. And I went to go see, and it was literally right next to it.maddieIs his headstone up?edenYeah.brookeI want to visit Alaina’s, but —maddieI haven’t seen since his.jadeWait, where’s Alaina’s?brookeI don’t know where Alaina’s is.maddieI’m going to Martin’s and I’m going to Luke’s, which are both in the same — [SIGH]clare toeniskoetterAnd you don’t have school on Thursday. Friday is optional?maddieOptional.jadeI mean, both of them is optional.maddieYeah.brookeThey’re both going to be there, but like —clare toeniskoetterYou’re able to go and do service projects. Is that right? Are any of you going to go into school on Thursday?maddieNo. I can’t. I couldn’t even stay for the rest of today.edenYeah, today was hard.maddieI had to leave after third.edenI left early and came late.jadeAre you going tomorrow?maddieNo. I can’t. I physically, like, starting on Monday, I walked into school and I couldn’t.jadeI feel like if I don’t, like, I don’t want to be at home thinking about it.edenYeah. I don’t want to be home by myself.jadeOh, yeah, I know.edenI don’t like that.maddieI’d rather be home than there.brookeThe thing is, I’ve already — I have so much makeup work.jadeI feel like I have to go to school. It’s so bad.brookeI have so much makeup work because I’ve gone early for so many days, because of everything just being too much. And I feel like I can’t miss any more school because the amount of things I have to make up is insane.maddieTomorrow is not going to be an academic day at all.brookeIt is.jadeYeah. I’m learning a lesson in math.brookeI have things planned in bio.jadeAnd I have homework over the weekend. And a test next week in there.brookeSame. [MUSIC]clare toeniskoetterWhat do you think that people get wrong about you? What do you think people should understand about you who were in the classroom?maddieSomething that I’ve always wished that the media knew is that — what we went through, other than the politics. Not everything’s about March for Our Lives. And whereas March for Our Lives is great, and the fact that they can make a change is amazing. But we have stories that are worth being told. And I think that —edenAnd are worth hearing.maddieAnd I think that the media is just so quick to politicize everything, because that’s what makes everything a story. But not everything’s political, and we’re actually going through something that’s real. And really bad.edenAnd it’s happening.maddieYeah, and it happened to us.brookeAnd it happened when we were, like, 14 or 15.edenThat’s what’s so amazing about what the March for Our Lives kids did. But now over time, it’s obviously getting less of a national discussion, less important in our conversations right now.jadeLess vital.edenWhich is upsetting.brookeI feel like another thing, too, is — especially with a bunch of news stations and stuff like that — because I feel like a lot of people forget. And I wish people knew that just because the cameras went away and people aren’t writing about it as much does not mean that the issue went away. Like, people are still depressed. People are still having panic attacks and anxiety attacks. And there are still people that can’t go throughout the day without breaking down because of this. And they didn’t just like, poof, when the camera stopped reporting them or their interview ended — nothing stopped.clare toeniskoetterWhat do you hope comes out of someone knowing that, of fully understanding your story of being in the room?maddieFor me, it’s more about memorializing them and remembering them. Because that’s what matters. To me, that’s what matters, is to keep —edenTo make sure their names aren’t forgotten.jadeTo keep them alive.maddieBecause they didn’t deserve to die. And they’re not here to share their stories.brookeBut we can do that for them. And I think that’s the only reason that —jadeIn a non-political way.brooke— exactly — is that we just want their name to be there forever. They didn’t go away. They’re going to be there with us in our memories as long as we live. And we, as the people who survived it, can bring their memory to life to other people and to show them how amazing they were. They didn’t meet them. But we hope that by telling you how smart Alaina was, by telling you how kind Alex was, by telling you how funny Alyssa was, that you can understand.clare toeniskoetterI think you guys have done a wonderful job honoring them.studentsThank you. Thank you all for talking to me. [MUSIC]maddieI want to take a picture of all of us. Like, a mirror selfie.edenOoh, right now?clare toeniskoetterI can take one of you guys, if you want.maddieNo, it’s O.K. It’s better like a mirror.edenFor Snapchat.jadeOr Instagram.brookeO.K., so there’s two options here with mirrors. [INTERPOSING VOICES]Listen and subscribe to our podcast from your mobile device: Via Apple Podcasts | Via RadioPublic | Via StitcherIt’s been a year since the shooting at Marjory Stoneman Douglas High School in Parkland. We went to Florida this week to check in on some of the students we met 12 months ago.On today’s episode:Clare Toeniskoetter, a producer for “The Daily,” spoke with four students who survived the shooting.Background coverage:“I feel broken, I feel defeated. Right now on my mind, it’s not going to be fine.” Three weeks after the shooting, a group of Stoneman Douglas High School students spoke to a Times reporter on “The Daily.” Listen here.In a series of interviews, nine members of the Stoneman Douglas community — students, parents, police, teachers — reflected on the past 12 months. Parkland students became leaders of the movement for gun control and traveled the country registering young people to vote. Here’s a look at the impact they made.Tune in, and tell us what you think. Email us at thedaily@nytimes.com. Follow Michael Barbaro on Twitter: @mikiebarb. And if you’re interested in advertising with “The Daily,” write to us at thedaily-ads@nytimes.com.AdvertisementFollow Us:Get the Upshot in your Inbox

      By MARGOT SANGER-KATZ and 
    
QUOCTRUNG BUI

MARCH 27, 2019

.229mm.45In Boston from 2010 to 2015, there were 221 gun homicides.Research suggests that one change could have lowered that number by 40 percent: smaller bullets.A study last year, published in JAMA Network Open, examined the type of weapon used in every fatal and nonfatal shooting in the city. It found that  —  regardless of the time of day, the number of wounds or the circumstances of the crime —  the size of the bullet affected which gunshot victims lived and which ones died. Effect on homicide rate if all wounds had been from guns with a ...At the center of the debate about gun control lies the question of whether the availability of deadly weapons increases the seriousness of crime. Critics of gun control contend it doesn’t. As the popular bumper sticker argues: “Guns don’t kill people. People kill people.” The study set out to test that slogan -- and found it wanting.“The type of weapon matters,” said Philip Cook, an emeritus professor of public policy at Duke University, and one of the study’s co-authors.If all the shooters in Boston had used the types of guns in circulation with the biggest bullets, the homicide rate could have been 43 percent higher, the researchers calculated recently, even with the same people committing exactly the same crimes.Criminal shootings in Boston, 2010-2014Over recent decades, the size of bullets fired by the typical handgun has increased. Changes in design have made it easier to fire big bullets from concealable weapons, and manufacturers have marketed more powerful guns as better tools for self-defense. In the 1970s and 1980s, the guns most commonly used in crime tended to be revolvers or small, inexpensive pistols that fired .22-caliber rounds, so-called for their 0.22-inch diameter.a .22-caliber round2 cm.1 cm.But regulations meant to reduce crimes committed with these cheap, disposable guns, sometimes called “Saturday night specials,” pushed them out of gun stores. And advances in gun technology caused a new generation of weapons to hit the market — and eventually the streets. The newer guns, which started to become common in the 1990s, were semi-automatic. They could fire multiple rounds more quickly, and tended to be able to store more bullets in their magazines, meaning they required less reloading in long shootouts.And instead of buying guns that fired smaller bullets, people started purchasing ones that fired rounds that were 9 millimeters wide, about 0.35 inches, then 0.40 and 0.45 inches.a 9mm-caliber round2 cm.1 cm.Guns that fire big bullets used to also be big. But improvements in technology have meant that large-caliber weapons are now available as pistols that can be more easily carried and hidden.These advances, intended for the legal self-defense market, have spread to the criminal one, too. Although data about the guns owned and used by criminals is imperfect, evidence suggests that criminals’ buying preferences are not substantially different from that of the general public. A recent study of guns used by criminal gangs, also in the Boston area, found that gang members paid the most for large-caliber semi-automatic pistols, which they often bought secondhand at prices much higher than those paid by legal purchasers in gun stores. Police seizures of guns in other cities, including Chicago, also show a growing share of large-caliber handguns.a .45-caliber round3 cm.2 cm.1 cm.“In general, the criminals who are using guns in crime do want the higher-caliber, more lethal weapons, and want the newest and sexiest,” said Roseanna Ander, the founding executive director of the Crime Lab at the University of Chicago. “But there is a big markup, and they sometimes can’t get them.”A foundational statistical study in 1972 looked at detailed crime records in Chicago and first documented a relationship between weapon type and outcome. Franklin Zimring, a professor of law at the University of California, Berkeley, said he had been surprised to see so much similarity in the circumstances between fatal and nonfatal shootings. What made the difference, he said, appeared to be some combination of luck, aim and the weapon involved.Mr. Zimring called that paper “The Medium Is the Message,” but said he had been urged to title it “The Bigger the Bullet, the Bigger the Hole.” In the decades since, little has been done to replicate its results. The police don’t always collect information about the caliber involved in shootings. Detailed data about all the particulars of nonfatal shootings is particularly rare.But when Anthony Braga, the director of the school of criminology and criminal justice at Northeastern University, and Mr. Cook learned that Boston’s Police Department was collecting information about caliber as part of an effort to improve its homicide clearance rate, they decided to retest that earlier thesis. It took five years of shootings for the researchers to collect enough data to draw firm conclusions.Bigger rounds can have their drawbacks for shooters, particularly when loaded into compact handguns. Because the bigger ammunition tends to fire with more explosive power, the .40- and .45-caliber handguns that some Boston criminals were using can have strong recoil that can make them hard to handle or to aim subsequent shots. The trade-off between caliber and aim is, in part, why the F.B.I. and many police departments carry 9-millimeter guns rather than larger alternatives. But accuracy seemed a less important consideration for the Boston criminals in the data the researchers examined. Unlike police shootings, most of the shootings in the sample involved a single bullet wound.“Their aim is terrible, fortunately,” Mr. Cook said. “A lot of these cases are drive-bys or cases where you just wouldn’t expect that there’s any sharpshooting going on.”If people are determined to kill someone, will they find a way? Critics of the study’s conclusion contend that the choice of gun itself can be an expression of a criminal’s intent.“As far as I know, everyone in the field believes bigger-caliber handguns are more lethal than smaller-caliber handguns — it's a nonissue," said Gary Kleck, a professor emeritus of criminology at Florida State University, in an email. But he said the study failed to take into consideration that a larger gun might signal a more determined killer. "The authors' implied claim that lethality of the shooter's intent has no effect on victim death is bizarre."There are no serious current proposals to regulate or limit the sale of handguns by caliber size. A recent anonymous survey of gun researchers by the nonpartisan RAND Corporation found that the field remains divided on the question of how much weapons matter in crimeIt’s true that the era of larger-caliber handguns has also been an era of declining violent crime. Homicides in most major American cities peaked in the early 1990s, just before larger-caliber pistols became common. The homicide rate has fallen nearly by half since then. But the research about weapon caliber suggests it could have dropped by even more.AdvertisementSupported byBy Tiffany HsuDick’s Sporting Goods, one of the largest firearms retailers in the United States, is moving further away from selling guns, even as the shift takes a toll on its earnings.On Tuesday, Dick’s said that it would strip firearms and other hunting products from 125 of its stores and replace the merchandise with batting cages, ski apparel and other sports gear. If the switch is successful, as it was at 10 stores where it was tested starting in the fall, it will be expanded, the company said.The latest move to scale back gun sales is becoming a familiar one for the company and its chief executive, Edward Stack.Last year, after 17 people were killed in a shooting in Parkland, Fla., Mr. Stack learned that the suspect, Nikolas Cruz, once bought a gun from Dick’s. That firearm was not used in the attack, but Mr. Stack realized it could have been.Shaken by the link, Mr. Stack, a longtime gun owner, introduced measures that made it harder to buy firearms at Dick’s stores, and he pressed Congress to adopt gun-safety measures. He aligned himself with gun-control activists; was shunned by gun sellers, buyers and firearms industry employees; and became one of the most cited names in a gun debate increasingly crowded with corporate voices.He appeared at conferences with Laurence D. Fink, the chief executive of BlackRock; Mark Bertolini, a former chief executive of Aetna; and other executives with strong opinions on gun control. In the process, Mr. Stack became a model for business leaders wading into contentious social issues.But  his outspoken approach may have put pressure on his company, which sells much more than guns. In announcing its earnings on Tuesday, Dick’s said adjusted same-store sales fell 3.1 percent in the 12 months that ended Feb. 2 from the comparable period a year earlier.In the fourth quarter, which included the holiday shopping season, adjusted same-store sales were down 2.2 percent. Net income for the quarter fell to $102.6 million, or $1.07 a share, from $116 million, or $1.11 a share in the year-earlier period.Public reaction to the policies Dick’s introduced after the Parkland shooting was a “meaningful driver” in the declines, Mr. Stack said in a conference call with analysts on Tuesday. Intensifying competition from Amazon was another, analysts said.The company, which is based in the Pittsburgh area, said it expected its sales for this year to range from flat to a 2 percent increase.In trading on Tuesday, Dick’s shares fell 11 percent from the previous close. But the stock, adjusted for dividends, is up more than 10 percent since Mr. Stack decided to remove AR-15-style and other semiautomatic rifles from the company’s Field & Stream stores soon after the Parkland shooting. Stores operating under the Dick’s logo had already stopped selling such weapons after the 2012 shooting at Sandy Hook Elementary School in Newtown, Conn., in which 26 people, including 20 children, were killed.Both chains stopped selling guns and ammunition to customers younger than 21 last year. The company includes 729 Dick’s Stores, 94 Golf Galaxy stores and 35 Field & Stream stores.Mr. Stack, whose father started Dick’s in 1948, said in a recent interview that the company had “been in the gun business basically since inception.” Gun demand broadly, he said, is “under pressure” and is “going to continue to be under pressure.”Firearm sales, according to an estimate from the Small Arms Analytics & Forecasting research firm, slumped 12.4 percent in February from a year earlier, to 1.1 million units.The drop “certainly appears to validate the ongoing challenging market conditions,” James Debney, the chief executive of American Outdoor Brands, said this month. The company, which owns the Smith & Wesson firearms brand, announced a $5.7 million loss in its third quarter, causing its stock to plunge.Interest in hunting has been on a steady decline in the United States for decades. Mr. Stack said in the interview that the hunting category had “deteriorated” for Dick’s in recent years.In the 10 stores where hunting products were not selling well and were replaced with other merchandise, sales improved during the test, Mr. Stack said on the call on Tuesday. If the expanded trial “goes as well as expected, we’d probably take another batch of stores next year,” he said.Mr. Stack said the shift was meant to make Dick’s stores more “productive.” But Camilla Yanushevsky, an analyst with the research firm CFRA, said that phasing out hunting products was “largely a sign of solidarity with Parkland victims, as well as a form of social activism.”The Parkland shooting inspired other companies to embrace gun safety activism.Delta Air Lines, MetLife and  others cut ties with the National Rifle Association after the attack. Citigroup and Bank of America placed restrictions on gun industry clients. In November, a group of pension funds and other investors circulated a list of guidelines for gun companies with the goal of improving transparency and safety.“It is up to the private sector to continue this conversation,” Mr. Stack said in the interview, “however slowly it moves.”But gun rights advocates have resisted corporate involvement in their cause.Months ago, American Outdoor Brands shareholders unexpectedly won a vote that asked the company to address the risks associated with its products and gun violence. Last month, the company wrote in response that its “reputation as a strong defender of the Second Amendment is not worth risking for a vague goal of improving the company’s reputation among noncustomers or special interest groups with an anti-Second Amendment agenda.”Some of Dick’s 45,000 employees felt the same about Mr. Stack’s decision to restrict gun sales, with 62 resigning over the last year, he said. The National Shooting Sports Foundation voted to expel Dick’s from its membership. Manufacturers like O. F. Mossberg & Sons stopped selling to the chain, although Mr. Stack said Dick’s still had access to Mossberg products through distributors.Mr. Stack also said he had received some threats and had increased security measures meant to protect him and the company. But he said he had no plans to curb his gun-safety efforts.He recently signed an open letter supporting universal background-check legislation that last month became the first major gun control measure in decades to pass the House. Along with executives from Levi Strauss and RXR Realty, he became one of the first members of a business council organized by Everytown for Gun Safety, a major gun safety advocacy group. He is looking into smart gun technology now being developed, calling it “helpful from a gun violence standpoint.”“People in the gun business are not terribly happy with us,” he said. “They said we were toxic, which is fine with us; we’re not going to change the way we’re going.”Follow Tiffany Hsu on Twitter: @tiffkhsu.AdvertisementSupported byGood Thursday. (Want this by email? Sign up here.)Guns Down America, a gun-control advocacy group, has graded 15 banks based on their support for the gun industry, Tiffany Hsu of the NYT reports. Most received dismal appraisals.• “Six of the banks, including JPMorgan Chase and Wells Fargo, received failing grades. Citigroup earned the highest one, a B.”• The group used a 100-point scale that weighed factors like “a bank’s loans to and investments in gun makers” and “discounts and deals it offers to N.R.A. members.”• Citi got an 84. JPMorgan got a 48. BB&T, the lowest-ranking bank on the list, got a 20, in part for loans and financing that it arranged for gun makers like Smith & Wesson.• “We’re not interested in shaming banks or running a campaign focused on how evil they are,” Igor Volsky, the group’s executive director, told Ms. Hsu. “Our end goal is to change the way banks make decisions when doing business with the gun industry.”• Ms. Hsu writes that “several banks contacted for comment said that they had not been consulted and that the group had relied on arbitrary metrics.”Carlos Ghosn was arrested for a fourth time today, as prosecutors hit him with new charges of using company funds for personal ends. The former Nissan chairman claims that it’s part of an effort to silence him.This time, he was accused of using a Nissan subsidiary in Oman to send millions of dollars of payments to one of the carmaker’s foreign business partners, which then passed it on to a company Mr. Ghosn controlled.Mr. Ghosn did this three times between 2015 and 2018, resulting in $5 million in losses to Nissan, according to prosecutors.He may be held in solitary confinement for at least 20 days, the FT reports, citing unnamed people close to his family. It adds that it is highly unusual in the Japanese legal system for someone released on bail to be rearrested.Mr. Ghosn blamed “some individuals at Nissan” for his “outrageous and arbitrary arrest,” saying they were attempting “to silence me by misleading the prosecutors.” He had tweeted yesterday that he planned to hold a news conference next Thursday to tell “the truth about what’s going on.”That tweet and arrest raise an interesting question: Did he violate the terms of his bail, which restrict his internet access?Cybersecurity researchers have found data about hundreds of millions of Facebook users stored publicly by a third party on Amazon’s cloud servers, according to Bloomberg.• “In one instance, Mexico City-based digital platform Cultura Colectiva openly stored 540 million records on Facebook users, including identification numbers, comments, reactions and account names. The records were accessible and downloadable for anyone who could find them online.”• “In the Cultura Colectiva dataset, which totaled 146 gigabytes, it was difficult for researchers to know how many unique Facebook users were affected.”• The researchers also “ had trouble working to get the database closed.”• “A Facebook spokesperson said that the company’s policies prohibit storing Facebook information in a public database. Once it was alerted to the issue, Facebook worked with Amazon to take down the databases.”It has been over a year since the Cambridge Analytica scandal showed how widely Facebook had shared user data with third-party app developers. The social network began to audit that data-sharing last year, but the research report shows the struggle the company still faces.More: Facebook is paying the British newspaper The Telegraph to publish sponsored articles that play down concerns about its practices. New research suggests that its algorithms target ads by race and gender even when advertisers request a broad audience. And have Mark Zuckerberg’s tech regulation proposals been treated unfairly?President Trump is expected to meet China’s trade envoy, Liu He, in Washington later today. That could be a sign of progress on some of the sticking points surrounding a potential deal, according to Bob Davis of the WSJ.The U.S. and China have been at odds over tariffs imposed on $250 billion of Chinese goods. Washington sees them as a way to ensure that China sticks to the deal; Beijing wants them removed as soon as it’s signed. China has few other hard demands, and U.S. businesses have urged the Trump administration to remove the tariffs.There could be workarounds. The U.S. trade representative, Robert Lighthizer, has “been using the tariff issue to push for another U.S. priority — that China agree to a no-retaliation clause in a trade deal,” Mr. Davis reports. The plan, which could let the U.S. unilaterally impose levies on Chinese goods if China does not comply, could “help him persuade Mr. Trump to approve the agreement and lift a substantial amount of tariffs.”“Mr. Trump is looking to announce on Thursday the date of a summit with Mr. Xi,” an unnamed Trump administration official told Mr. Davis. “That’s a big signal the two sides are on the cusp of a deal, trade experts say, and a resolution of the tariff issue.”But “the situation is fluid, and plans could change,” the official added.Senator Ron Wyden, the top Democrat on the Senate’s tax-writing committee, has an idea that could radically change how America taxes the 1 percent, according to the WSJ.Mr. Wyden proposed taxing gains in asset values annually, at the same rate as other income. Gains are currently taxed only when investors sell an asset, and at a top rate of 23.8 percent, rather than the 37 percent for ordinary income.The senator said his plan would “eliminate serious loopholes that allow some to pay a lower rate than wage earners, to delay their taxes indefinitely, and in some cases, to avoid paying tax at all.”Challenges to the plan include how to value gains in complex assets, how to handle declines in value, and how to apply it to illiquid holdings like real estate.The proposal “is a breathtakingly terrible idea,” Sen. Pat Toomey, Republican of Pennsylvania, told the WSJ.President Trump’s aversion to regulation and his go-it-alone nationalism are wavering in the face of technology questions, Steve Lohr of the NYT reports.• “In September, the Trump administration abandoned its hands-off approach and began working closely with the 36-nation Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development to create international guidelines for the design and use of artificial intelligence.”• “The administration has also started to discuss a new law to protect privacy in the digital age, seeking consensus domestically and common ground internationally. It has fielded more than 200 public-comment filings from advocacy groups, corporations and individuals.”The administration has “moved from indifference to engagement,” Julie Brill, a former commissioner at the Federal Trade Commission who now helps oversee regulatory affairs for Microsoft, told Mr. Lohr.“The shift is a pragmatic recognition that regulations that will affect the nation’s tech industry and its citizens are coming, and that if federal officials want a say in them, they must participate,” Mr. Lohr writes.The race to give citizens superfast wireless data networks reached a conclusion yesterday. But there’s no clear consensus on which city is the world’s first to enjoy 5G, the WSJ reports.• “Verizon launched 5G wireless service in parts of Chicago and Minneapolis on Wednesday, a week ahead of its planned start date, while carriers in South Korea deployed their service in the Seoul metropolitan area the same day.”• “It is unclear which country struck first. South Korea’s large carriers, which had eyed a Friday start, hustled to switch on 5G services at 11 p.m. local time. Both SK Telecom Co. and KT Corp., the two largest operators, claimed to have the world’s first 5G smartphone subscribers. Verizon said its customers in those two cities were the first.”The development of 5G has become politically charged. America and China, in particular, see it as a means of asserting technological prowess. And the battle has entangled the Chinese telecom company Huawei, with America and others declaring its 5G hardware a risk to national security.Expect to hear more about the race.Condй Nast has hired Roger Lynch, the former chief executive of Pandora, as its new C.E.O.PG&E confirmed that it has appointed 10 new directors, including Nora Mead Brownell, a former commissioner of the Federal Energy Regulation Commission, and Jeffrey Bleich, a partner at the law firm Dentons.Zeina Bain, one of the Carlyle Group’s most senior female deal makers, has left for a competitor, ICG.Apple promoted its M.&A. chief, Adrian Perica, by having him report directly to Tim Cook instead of the company’s C.F.O.Deals• The radio giant iHeartMedia filed to go public yesterday, though it hasn’t decided between an I.P.O. and a Spotify-like direct share listing. (NYT)• Nearly 20 percent of Lyft’s shares have been lent to short-sellers as part of bets they’ll fall in price. It’s now the most expensive American stock to short. (DealBook, Business Insider)• SoftBank is reportedly in talks to raise $15 billion more for its Vision Fund. (Bloomberg)• The consulting firm Accenture agreed to buy Droga5, one of the big independent advertising agencies. (NYT)Politics and policy• The arrest of a Chinese national carrying malware at Mar-a-Lago shows how hard it is for a presidential home to double as a moneymaking business. (WaPo)• The chairman of the House Ways and Means Committee formally requested six years of President Trump’s tax returns, while the House Intelligence Committee has asked for documents related to his inauguration. (NYT)• Senate Republicans resorted to the “nuclear option” of limiting debate on presidential nominations for federal courts and administrative posts to speed up confirmation of Mr. Trump’s picks. (NYT)• Some of Robert Mueller’s investigators have told associates that Attorney General William Barr’s summary of their findings underplayed troubling conclusions about President Trump. (NYT)Boeing• Ethiopian investigators said that the pilots of the Ethiopian Airlines flight that crashed followed proper guidance. (NYT)• Some pilots said that Boeing should have provided more instructions for disabling the anti-stall software suspected in the two crashes. (WSJ)• The family of Ralph Nader’s niece, who was killed in the Ethiopian Airlines crash, plans to sue Boeing. (NYT)• Boeing hasn’t halted 737 Max production despite the global grounding of the Max 8 model. (Bloomberg)Brexit• Prime Minister Theresa May and the opposition leader, Jeremy Corbyn, have begun talks to devise a Brexit deal that could garner cross-party support. (NYT)• Parliament passed a bill to force Mrs. May to seek a further delay to the process and avoid a no-deal Brexit. (FT)Tech• Tesla delivered 63,000 vehicles in the first quarter — fewer than expected and down 31 percent from the fourth quarter of 2018. (NYT)• A.I. experts have called on Amazon to stop selling its facial-recognition technology to law enforcement because it’s biased against women and people of color. (NYT)• Australia passed a law threatening huge fines for social media companies that fail to take down “abhorrent violent material” rapidly. (NYT)• MIT is cutting ties with the Chinese tech giants Huawei and ZTE over security risks. (FT)• Google will now require suppliers to provide their workers with benefits, including parental leave and minimum wages. (Wired)Best of the rest• Has the yield curve predicted the next recession — or are its warnings being overplayed? (FT)• Six women have sued Jones Day, one of the world’s largest law firms, for pregnancy and gender discrimination. (NYT)• A report by BlackRock says that investors underestimate extreme weather risks. (FT)• China’s stimulus plan might be working. (FT)• Much of the U.S. is experiencing a Japan-style decline in working-age residents. (Upshot)AdvertisementSupported byOur columnist answers your questions. By Michelle GoldbergOpinion ColumnistAdvertisementSupported byBy Kate TaylorPeople on opposite sides of the debate about guns apparently can’t agree on anything these days — not even the meaning of a string of pearls.On Tuesday, liberal activists expressed outrage at a group of male New Hampshire legislators who wore pearl necklaces at a committee hearing. Shannon Watts, the founder of a gun control group, Moms Demand Action for Gun Sense in America, posted an image of the lawmakers, all Republicans, on Twitter and accused them of mocking her group’s volunteers and others who were testifying.Male New Hampshire lawmakers on the hearing committee wearing pearls to mock @MomsDemand volunteers and gun safety advocates. #NHPolitics pic.twitter.com/rc1S3Bj9lGThe intended message of the pearls wasn’t entirely clear, though one interpretation was that the lawmakers were trying to paint members of the group as “pearl clutchers” — suggesting that they were being overly sensitive. People responding to the tweet attacked the men pictured, calling them bullies and their behavior malicious and cruel.Two Democratic presidential hopefuls, Senators Cory Booker and Kamala Harris, weighed in on Twitter in support of Moms Demand Action, which is an arm of Everytown For Gun Safety, the gun control group financed by Michael Bloomberg. “These moms are fighting to confront gun violence and protect our children,” Ms. Harris said. “They don’t deserve to be mocked.”But a different narrative soon emerged: Kimberly Morin, the president of a gun rights group that also attended the hearing, told The New Hampshire Union Leader that her group had distributed the pearls. The hearing was over a proposed “red flag” bill, which would allow courts to temporarily take away guns from people found to be an immediate risk to themselves or others.In an interview on Wednesday, Ms. Morin said the pearls were not meant to mock anyone, but had for years been a symbol for her group, the Women’s Defense League of New Hampshire, which offers firearms training to women as well as advocating gun rights.“She’s lying,” Ms. Morin said of Ms. Watts, the founder of Moms Demand Action. “That’s my comment — she’s lying.”For her part, Ms. Watts said Ms. Morin’s group was backing away from the necklaces’ original intent. “It started out meant to mock Moms Demand Action volunteers,” she insisted.Ms. Morin traced the origin of the symbolic pearls to 2015. After a hearing that year on a bill to allow people to carry concealed guns without a permit, an anonymous Moms Demand Action volunteer was quoted as saying that many potential opponents of the bill didn’t testify because they were intimidated, Ms. Morin said.“People really don’t like to come and stand in front of a ‘firing squad’ — a group of people with guns,” the volunteer told WMUR, a local television station.Ms. Morin said her group found the statement absurd. That day, some in her group were dressed in business suits — and as it happened, pearls — hardly the attire of a “firing squad.” It was that sequence of events that led the group to make pearls their signature, she said. (The bill was ultimately signed by Gov. Chris Sununu in 2017 at a ceremony rife with pearl necklaces.)New Hampshire has among the least restrictive gun laws in the country, and support for gun rights is strong. Democrats took control of both chambers of the legislature in November and are now pushing a package of bills aimed at setting limits on guns, including bills requiring background checks for commercial gun purchases, creating a waiting period between the purchase and delivery of a gun, and allowing school districts to create gun-free zones.The bills face considerable odds, given that Mr. Sununu, a Republican, has expressed opposition to any changes to the state’s gun laws, a position his spokesman reiterated on Wednesday.AdvertisementSupported byBy Catie EdmondsonWASHINGTON — The House this week is set to pass the first major gun control legislation in over two decades, with Democratic lawmakers expected to approve two measures strengthening background checks for all firearms sales.The last time the House put high-profile legislation expanding gun control laws to a vote was in 1994, when it passed the Federal Assault Weapons Ban and made it illegal to manufacture a number of semiautomatic weapons for civilian use. That legislation expired after a decade and was not renewed by a Republican-controlled Congress.But riding a new wave of urgency after a series of mass shootings — and the activism inspired by the school massacre in Parkland, Fla., last February in which 17 students and teachers were killed — House Democrats have pledged to take meaningful action on the issue, beginning with the twin bills.Here’s what you need to know about the measures and their odds in the Senate.The Bipartisan Background Checks Act, which the House will take up on Wednesday, requires universal background checks, closing a loophole for buyers at gun shows and online. The legislation, sponsored by Representative Mike Thompson, Democrat of California and the chairman of the House Gun Violence Prevention Task Force, also prohibits firearms transfers by a person who is not a licensed dealer. There are a number of exceptions, though, such as a family member giving a firearm as a gift, or lending a gun to someone in imminent danger.The second piece of legislation, the Enhanced Background Checks Act, will be voted on Thursday. Sponsored by Representative James E. Clyburn of South Carolina, the majority whip, the bill seeks to extend the initial background check review period to 10 days from three.Under federal law, the F.B.I. has three business days to perform its review and determine whether there is sufficient evidence to deny a purchase. If it is unable to do so, on the fourth day, the customer can return to the dealer and buy a gun. That loophole allowed Dylann S. Roof, the man who killed nine people at a historically black church in Charleston, S.C., in 2015, to purchase a .45-caliber handgun even though he had previously admitted to drug possession, which should have barred him from legally obtaining the weapon.A vast majority of guns used in 19 recent mass shootings — including those in Newtown, Conn.; San Bernardino, Calif.; and Las Vegas — were bought legally and after the gunman passed a federal background check. At least nine attackers had criminal histories or documented mental health problems that did not prevent them from obtaining their weapons.“The new gun control restrictions currently being considered by the Democratic majority in H.R. 8 would not have prevented my shooting,” Representative Steve Scalise of Louisiana, the Republican whip, said of the Bipartisan Background Checks Act. Mr. Scalise was gravely wounded in 2017 when a gunman fired on members of the Republican congressional baseball team while they were practicing in Virginia.But gun control advocates have praised the measures as a meaningful step toward change, and described the legislation as a necessary foundation for future work. Last year, the existing background check system identified and denied 88,000 gun sales to prohibited buyers including criminals and domestic abusers, according to Mr. Thompson’s office — but those same people are currently able to make purchases at gun shows or online.“We have fairly weak gun laws and we have loopholes that make it easy to have the levels of gun violence that we have right now, and we certainly have to do more to address it,” said Robin Lloyd, the managing director of the Giffords Law Center to Prevent Gun Violence. “But it is a critical first step.”The bills introduced by House Democrats closely mirror the last major attempt in the Senate to pass a gun control measure. Efforts led by Senator Patrick J. Toomey, Republican of Pennsylvania, and Senator Joe Manchin III, Democrat of West Virginia, to require background checks at gun shows and online failed in the Democratic-led Senate in 2013 and again in the Republican-led Senate in 2015.Otherwise, in the last two decades, most firearms legislation taken up by Congress has aimed to relax gun laws, such as attempts in the House and Senate to pass a concealed-carry reciprocity law allowing a person permitted to carry a concealed weapon in one state to carry it in every state.AdvertisementSupported byBy Catie EdmondsonWASHINGTON — The House voted on Wednesday to require background checks for all gun purchasers, including those at gun shows and on the internet — the first significant gun control bill to clear the chamber in a quarter of a century.The 240-to-190 vote is the first of two gun control measures expected to be put to House lawmakers this week, a turning point in gun legislation after 25 years when the National Rifle Association dominated the chamber. Last year’s massacre at Marjory Stoneman Douglas High School in Parkland, Fla., prompted a wave of student-led activism that pressed Democrats to unite around gun control, and the activists cheered when the measure cleared the 218-vote threshold for passage.The Democratic victory was tempered, however, after Republicans prevailed in adding a provision that would require the F.B.I. to alert Immigration and Customs Enforcement if an undocumented immigrant tried to obtain a firearm. Twenty-six Democrats, primarily from moderate or Republican-leaning districts, broke party lines to support the measure.But Speaker Nancy Pelosi of California and other Democrats insisted that would ultimately have little import.“Finally, we have done more than thoughts and prayers. Finally, we have taken a vote to expand background checks and help save lives,” said Representative Mike Thompson, Democrat of California, who leads the congressional Gun Violence Prevention Task Force.“For six long years, we worked on this issue, and the previous majority would not even let us have a hearing, let alone a vote to expand background checks,” Mr. Thompson said. “Today is a new day, and the show of support on both sides of the aisle for this important legislation is humbling.”More than 100 student activists, gun violence survivors and advocates — clad in a sea of orange scarves, ties and blazers to denote their support for the legislation — looked on from the House gallery as lawmakers advanced Mr. Thompson’s legislation, the Bipartisan Background Checks Act. It seeks to close loopholes that allow individuals to buy firearms on the internet or at gun shows without having to pass a background check.“We’ve been working toward this legislation for over a year now,” said Laura Kirk, 18, and a founder of a Students Demand Action high school chapter in Virginia. “It’s incredible to see our work translate into tangible results.”The Democrat-led House is expected to pass legislation on Thursday that would extend the amount of time the F.B.I. has to conduct background checks of gun purchasers, to 10 business days from three. It is an attempt to close the so-called Charleston loophole, which allowed Dylann Roof, the white supremacist who killed nine people in 2015 at a historically black church in Charleston, S.C., to buy a handgun even though he should have been barred from purchasing the weapon.It is “unlikely” that either measure will be taken up in the Republican-controlled Senate, Senator John Thune of South Dakota, the No. 3 Republican, said on Tuesday. House Republicans have flatly condemned both pieces of legislation, arguing the measures would be both ineffective and infringe on law-abiding citizens’ rights.The House bill that was approved on Wednesday “is taking the fears and concerns of a nation over gun violence and perpetrating a fraud on them,” said Representative Doug Collins of Georgia, the top Republican on the Judiciary Committee. “The reality is nothing in this bill would have stopped Parkland, or stopped any of the other violence we have seen.”Gunmen at the center of a number of high-profile mass shootings passed background checks and legally purchased the firearms they used. But gun control activists have praised both background check measures as a critical first step in a broader drive to reduce gun violence.“America’s current background check system is like having two types of security lines at the airport: one for people who are willing to be screened, and one you can waltz right through carrying whatever you want,” said John Feinblatt, the president of Everytown for Gun Safety. “We applaud the House for moving so quickly.”Once divided on the issue, House Democrats returned to the majority, promising meaningful action on gun control, with aid from advocacy groups backing candidates who made the issue central to their campaigns. Michael Bloomberg, the former mayor of New York, spent around $100 million in the midterms last year to elect gun control supporters, according to Everytown.The group will continue its push this week with $400,000 in digital ads urging lawmakers to support the legislation as it tries to break through the Senate.One of the new freshman Democrats supported by Mr. Bloomberg, Representative Lucy McBath of Georgia, had a 17-year-old son, Jordan, killed by gun violence.“Turning her grief and her tragedy into action and courage, to run for Congress, to stand on this floor and share her personal story with us — that takes real courage,” Ms. Pelosi said from the House floor, adding that the statistics of gun violence victims “spell out the story, but it is the human, personal stories that change minds.”Wednesday’s vote, Ms. Pelosi said, sends “a clear message to the families of those who have lost their loved ones to gun violence, that we have crossed a threshold here today to reduce gun violence in our country.”The Republican measure attached to the bill would present a problem if a version of the gun bill cleared the Senate. The measure has angered liberals in the House, who would like to see it removed in House-Senate negotiations.AdvertisementSupported byBy Catie EdmondsonWASHINGTON — The House voted Thursday to extend the time allotted for the F.B.I. to conduct background checks for gun purchasers flagged by the national instant check system, the second major gun control bill to clear the chamber this week after two decades of inaction.Democratic leaders also succeeded in quelling a small rebellion among freshman Democrats from Republican-leaning districts, persuading them to oppose a politically freighted Republican procedural motion after they backed a similar motion on Wednesday.The 228-to-198 vote aims to extend the background check review period for gun purchasers to 10 days. Currently, the F.B.I. must perform its review and determine whether there is sufficient evidence to deny a purchase in three business days. If it cannot complete the review within that time, a buyer may return to the dealer on the fourth day to purchase a firearm.That provision in current law allowed Dylann S. Roof to purchase a handgun and kill nine people at a historic black church in Charleston, S.C., in 2015, even though he should have been denied his firearm.“Let’s give the F.B.I., the authorities, enough time to do their job and save lives,” Representative James E. Clyburn of South Carolina, the majority whip and the bill’s sponsor, implored his colleagues from the House floor.Both gun control bills that cleared the House this week face dim prospects in the Senate, but they were cause for celebration for the gun-control activists that mobilized last year after a series of horrific mass shootings.While Thursday’s bill was expected to easily clear the Democrat-controlled chamber, a dose of drama was added after House Republicans staged a successful ambush during the vote on the first gun control measure on Wednesday.In an attempt to divide Democrats and draw out vulnerable swing-district members, Republicans offered a provision that would require the F.B.I. to alert Immigration and Customs Enforcement if an undocumented immigrant tried to obtain a firearm. Twenty-six Democrats broke party lines to support the measure, catching Democratic leadership caught off guard.House Republicans tried a repeat ambush on Thursday, surprising Democrats with a last-minute motion to exempt victims of domestic abuse from the new 10-day waiting period. This time, following strict marching orders from Speaker Nancy Pelosi, the motion failed, with only two Democrats, Representatives Jeff Van Drew of New Jersey and Collin C. Peterson of Minnesota, voting for the measure.“Vote no, just vote no, because the fact is a vote yes is to give leverage to the other side and surrender leverage on the floor of the House,” Ms. Pelosi told reporters on Thursday.At a meeting of House Democrats before the vote, Representative Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez of New York implored moderates to vote against the Republican-led motions and, in an implicit threat, added that she would make it clear to liberal activists which members supported the Republican measures, according to officials in the room.But some moderate freshmen, including Representative Xochitl Torres Small of New Mexico, stood up and explained how difficult the votes have been for them.House Republicans have sought to weaponize the procedural motion, using politically fraught measures to test the new Democrats’ resolve. The measures rarely hold the force of law, but a no vote even on a procedural motion could show up in a 30-second attack ad next year. Republicans succeeded in attaching a resolution condemning anti-Semitism and the boycott-Israel movement to a bill designed to halt American aid to Saudi Arabia’s war in Yemen after even Democratic leaders gave up on opposing it.“All they want to do is feed red meat to their base,” Representative Veronica Escobar, Democrat of Texas, said of House Republicans. “I’m hoping that colleagues of mine will see it that way and understand that these procedural motions — even the best-worded procedural motion — has not had the chance to go through the process” of committee consideration.Amid concern that some Democrats will continue to break away on tough votes, some House leaders are weighing revising the rules to require Republicans to give them more notice on the content of procedural motions.Representative Joe Cunningham, Democrat of South Carolina, who has voted for Republican-backed motions, played down their importance on Thursday.“These little motions and minor bills should not take attention away from the fact that progress is being made to keep people safe,” said Mr. Cunningham, one of the co-sponsors of Mr. Clyburn’s gun control bill.Ms. Pelosi signaled that she was not keen to change the rules, but added that it could be a topic for consideration by a select committee studying potential changes to “modernize” the House.“I am a big believer in respecting the whole House and the rights of the minority to have their say,” Ms. Pelosi told reporters.The “Charleston loophole” bill did show some of the old divisions that have plagued Democrats in the past over gun control. Seven Democrats voted no, including freshmen Anthony Brindisi of New York, Jared Golden of Maine, Kendra Horn of Oklahoma, Ben McAdams of Utah and Ms. Torres Small of New Mexico, all of whom won Republican districts in November.Only three Republicans voted yes.AdvertisementSupported byBy Tiffany HsuGun control activists have spent years trying to limit the number of assault-style firearms available to civilians: holding rallies, drafting proposed laws and backing campaigns by shareholders of publicly traded gun makers.Now, one advocacy group is focusing on a different pressure point: the consumer banks that provide loans and other financial support to the gun industry.The group, Guns Down America, which formed in 2016 after a mass shooting in Orlando, Fla., has created a ranking system that gives 15 banks letter grades based primarily on their ties to firearms makers and trade groups like the National Rifle Association.Six of the banks, including JPMorgan Chase and Wells Fargo, received failing grades. Citigroup earned the highest one, a B.Igor Volsky, Guns Down America’s founder and executive director, said he hoped the grading system would compel banks to be more publicly supportive of gun control measures, in the same way that many companies have taken positions on gay rights, immigration and other social issues.Part of the mission, he added, is stopping “the Wild Wild West of how gun manufacturers both produce military-style weapons and also how they can market those firearms.”“We’re not interested in shaming banks or running a campaign focused on how evil they are,” Mr. Volsky said. “Our end goal is to change the way banks make decisions when doing business with the gun industry.”The group used a 100-point scale that applied different weights to factors like a bank’s loans to and investments in gun makers; its public statements about gun safety; its support for lawmakers backed by the N.R.A.; and the discounts and deals it offers to N.R.A. members.The basis for the grades was publicly available information gathered from media reports, regulatory documents, campaign finance filings and other sources. Any undisclosed updates to gun-related deals, legal complications that might affect those arrangements and internal discussions were not reflected.Guns Down America said it had shared its methodology and individual grades with all 15 banks and was involved in continuing talks with some of them, but several banks contacted for comment said that they had not been consulted and that the group had relied on arbitrary metrics.In the last year, gun safety groups have begun looking more closely at the firearms industry’s corporate ties, with the scrutiny leading some businesses to make changes.After a mass shooting in Parkland, Fla., Delta Air Lines, Hertz and several other companies broke with the N.R.A., and retailers like Dick’s Sporting Goods made some guns harder to buy. Influential Wall Street figures like Laurence D. Fink, the chief executive of BlackRock, publicly embraced gun safety efforts.In March, estimated firearm sales in the United States slipped 12.6 percent from a year earlier, to nearly 1.4 million units, according to the research firm Small Arms Analytics & Forecasting.The financial industry’s connections to gun makers have drawn attention before. In December, The New York Times reported that many of the mass shootings in the last decade had been financed with credit cards.[Read out how banks unwittingly provide financing for mass shootings.]Some banks have already started to revise their policies and practices on firearms. Citigroup, which earned a score of 84 from Guns Down America, said in March 2018 that it would work only with clients that agreed to certain restrictions on firearm sales.A short time later, Bank of America said it would stop lending to companies that made military-inspired firearms for civilian use. It was subsequently criticized for its commitment to contribute $43.2 million in bankruptcy financing for Remington.Bank of America, which did not respond to a request for comment, got a C from Guns Down America.The six banks that received failing grades all had more than $200 million in recent financial arrangements with gun companies, according to Guns Down America.The group gave JPMorgan Chase a 48, finding that it had contributed $21,000 to politicians strongly supported by the N.R.A., and had a $273 million financing arrangement with Vista Outdoor. Guns Down America did not specify whether the money was directed only to Vista’s gun business, which the company had said it plans to sell.Marianne Lake, JPMorgan’s chief financial officer, said last year that the bank’s links to military-style firearms “have come down significantly and are pretty limited.” JPMorgan declined to comment on the Guns Down America grade.BB&T was last on the Guns Down America list. Its score of 20 was partly a result of its arranging $147 million in loans to the industry from 2012 to 2016 and partly a result of its recent involvement in a $78 million revolving credit line for Smith & Wesson, according to the gun control group.Brian Davis, a spokesman for BB&T, said the bank was “deeply concerned with the increasing amount of gun violence in our schools and communities,” and listened to “a wide range of opinions” on gun control. He said the bank did not comment publicly about its financial relationships.Guns Down America found that Wells Fargo, which fared slightly better at 25 points, had extended $471 million in loans and credit to gun makers since 2012, including a $40 million loan to Sturm Ruger last year. The N.R.A. also uses Wells Fargo, and the bank donated $92,000 to a group of lawmakers supported by the trade group, Guns Down America said.Trisha Schultz, a Wells Fargo spokeswoman, said in a statement that the bank planned to invest more than $10 million over three years in studying gun-violence prevention and in improving school safety. The bank, she said, has “a small and declining relationship with the N.R.A.”But Ms. Schultz added that “changes to gun laws and regulations should be determined through a legislative process that gives the American public an opportunity to participate and not be arbitrarily set by a bank.”“We do not believe that the American public wants banks to decide which legal products consumers can and cannot buy,” she said.Because of an editing error an earlier version of this article misidentified whose links to military-style firearms “have come down significantly and are pretty limited,” according to Marianne Lake, JPMorgan’s chief financial officer. Ms. Lake was referring to the bank’s links to such firearms, not Vista Outdoor’s links.Follow Tiffany Hsu on Twitter: @tiffkhsu.AdvertisementSupported by An innovative technology calculates the optimal time to talk about reform.By Pat Kelly, Chris Kelly, Lauren Bercovitch, Michael Tanko Grand and Taige JensenAdvertisementSupported byBy Sheryl Gay StolbergWASHINGTON — Emboldened House Democrats, seeking a politically charged debate on gun control, unveiled legislation on Tuesday to expand background checks to nearly all firearms purchases, a move timed to mark the eighth anniversary of the mass shooting in Arizona that nearly killed former Representative Gabrielle Giffords.By introducing the measure less than one week after taking control of the House, Democrats are signaling that it is a top priority. A vote could come within the first 100 days of the new Congress. The measure, and a companion bill introduced Tuesday in the Senate, also reflects the changing politics around gun laws, an issue many Democrats once shied away from.The bill, which will almost certainly pass the House but will face a steep climb in the Republican-controlled Senate, would require background checks on the purchases of nearly all firearms, including those sold at gun shows and over the internet. There would be limited exceptions, including for law enforcement officers and for guns transferred between close family members.Polls have shown that a vast majority of Americans — by some estimates, 90 percent — support universal background checks for all gun purchases. Many Democrats, including Representative Lucy McBath, a freshman from Georgia whose son was shot and killed at a Florida gas station, were elected last year after promising to address gun safety.“Today we take a decisive step to help save lives right away,” said Representative Mike Thompson, Democrat of California and the bill’s chief sponsor, adding, “From public polling to the ballot box, the American people have spoken up and demanded action.”By limiting the bill to background checks — and keeping out other provisions such as a ban on assault rifles or high-capacity magazines — gun safety advocates hope to pressure Republicans on a policy that has broad public support. In the Senate, Mitch McConnell of Kentucky, the majority leader, will have to decide whether to bring up the bill. In the House, Republicans will be forced to vote on it.“It will show us who’s with us and who’s against us,” said Patricia Maisch, 69, who survived the Jan. 8, 2011, mass shooting in Tucson that killed six and grievously injured Ms. Giffords.But by narrowing the bill so dramatically, Democrats may also limit its utility. Suspects in many recent high-profile mass shootings — including those in Pittsburgh; Parkland, Fla.; Thousand Oaks, Calif.; Las Vegas; and Sutherland Springs, Tex. — had passed background checks when purchasing their weapons.Even modest gun law changes rarely make it through Congress. The measure is similar to one written by Senators Joe Manchin III, Democrat of West Virginia, and Patrick J. Toomey, Republican of Pennsylvania, in response to the mass shooting that killed 20 children and six adults at Sandy Hook Elementary School in Newtown, Conn., in 2012. That bill, pressed hard by President Barack Obama and the parents of Sandy Hook victims, fell to a bipartisan filibuster in 2013 in a Senate controlled by Democrats.Then as now, the National Rifle Association opposed the measure.“So-called universal background checks will never be universal because criminals do not comply with the law,” said Jennifer Baker, a spokeswoman for the powerful gun lobby. She noted that the gunman who shot Ms. Giffords passed a background check. His name did not come up in the federal database even though he had mental health issues.The Democrats’ measure was unveiled at a news conference featuring Speaker Nancy Pelosi of California, Mr. Thompson, who helped write the House companion bill to Toomey-Manchin in 2013, and Ms. Giffords, as well as gun safety advocates and victims of gun violence from around the country. Mr. Thompson escorted Ms. Giffords, who as a former member is still permitted on the House floor, into the chamber so she could formally drop the bill into the “hopper” — the bin, located on the rostrum, where all legislation has its start.Ms. Giffords, 48, a Democrat who once opposed gun control, was shot in the head during a constituent meeting she was holding in a supermarket parking lot. Those who died included a 9-year-old girl and a young staff member for Ms. Giffords; 13 were injured, including Ms. Giffords, who suffered a serious brain injury that makes conversation difficult.“It’s been a long, hard haul, but I’m getting better,” Ms. Giffords told reporters at a breakfast Tuesday, reading from a prepared statement. She said she was still undergoing “speech therapy, physical therapy — and yoga, too.”Current law requires only federally licensed gun dealers to perform background checks. Gun safety advocates say the law is riddled with loopholes that allow felons, domestic abusers and others who would ordinarily be prohibited from buying guns to purchase them through private sales, including online and at gun shows.For gun safety advocates and victims of gun violence, Tuesday’s bill introduction represents an important shift in Washington after a year of devastating massacres, including the mass shooting at Marjory Stoneman Douglas High School in Parkland, Fla., last February, which spawned a powerful youth movement.“Successful legislative change follows cultural change,” said Emily Nottingham, whose son, Gabriel Zimmerman, then an aide to Ms. Giffords, was killed in the Tucson shooting. She added, “When more and more people recognize that this is a national issue that can affect all of us, not just a few people somewhere else, then cultural change happens, and that’s what we’re seeing now.”Under the Thompson bill, anyone who wanted to sell a gun but lacked a license would have to take the weapon to a licensed dealer, who would then conduct a background check on the purchaser.Transfers between law enforcement officers and military personnel acting in a professional capacity would be exempt, as would “a loan or bona fide gift between spouses, between domestic partners, between parents and their children, between siblings, between aunts and uncles and their nieces or nephews or between grandparents and their grandchildren,” according to the text of the bill.Transfers to executors of estates would also be exempt, as would temporary transfers of weapons for the purpose of hunting or to “prevent imminent death or great bodily harm.”AdvertisementSupported byBy ReutersZURICH — Two of out three Swiss voters support tightening gun controls in line with changes to European Union rules, a poll released on Friday showed, potentially heading off a clash with Brussels.The restrictions, which apply to non-EU member Switzerland because it is part of Europe's Schengen open-border system, have raised hackles among Swiss shooting enthusiasts ahead of a binding referendum on May 19.Failure to adopt the rules could force Switzerland to leave the passport-free Schengen zone and the Dublin joint system for handling asylum requests.After militants killed scores in Paris and elsewhere in 2015, the EU in 2017 toughened laws against purchasing semi-automatic rifles like the ones used in those attacks, and made it easier to track weapons in national databases.Friday's gfs.bern poll for broadcaster SRF showed 66 percent of eligible voters questioned support tougher gun controls while 33 percent opposed the change. The margin of error was 2.9 percentage points.The initial EU proposal provoked an outcry because it meant a ban on the long Swiss tradition of ex-soldiers keeping their assault rifles.Swiss officials have negotiated concessions for gun enthusiasts who take part in the country's numerous shooting clubs, but any restrictions imported from the EU go too far for right-wing activists concerned about Swiss sovereignty.Gun rights proponents complain the rules could disarm law-abiding citizens and encroach on Switzerland's heritage and national identity that includes a well-armed citizenry.Switzerland has one of the highest rates of private gun ownership in Europe, with nearly 48 percent of households owning a gun. But that harks back to a long tradition of self-defense and to the Swiss policy of near-universal conscription, and gun-related crime is low.In a separate referendum also on May 19, voters will decide on a corporate tax overhaul whose passage the finance minister has described as "existential" for Switzerland as a business hub. AdvertisementSupported byThe Parkland students became a force for gun control legislation and boosted the youth vote. Here’s how they changed America’s response to mass shootings. By Margaret Kramer and Jennifer HarlanOn Feb. 14, 2018, a former student slaughtered 17 people at Marjory Stoneman Douglas High School in Parkland, Fla. The next day, David Hogg, a student who survived the attack, expressed his frustration at the pattern of political inaction that seems to follow mass shootings in the United States. He was not surprised that there had been another school shooting, he said, and that fact alone “says so much about the current state that our country is in, and how much has to be done.”“We need to do something,” he said. In the course of the next year, students would change the way the nation handles mass shootings, spurring new gun legislation and school safety measures, and holding to account the adults they felt had failed them.Here’s a look at where they made those changes happen, and where they were disappointed. With Parkland, it was the students who set the agenda. Their openness about their pain made them formidable leaders of the movement for gun control, and their displays of strength and utter grief struck a chord with a nation numbed by repeated acts of violence.In the weeks after the shooting, busloads of Stoneman Douglas students took their case to the Florida capital and to Washington. With a rallying cry of “Never Again,” they gathered support from other young people and activists, and their March for Our Lives campaign spurred huge rallies and hundreds of protests, including a nationwide school walkout. The students’ pleas reached the White House, imploring President Trump to better protect schools and limit access to guns. And the movement brought youth activism to a new age — finding global power in social media and pushing public officials to acknowledge their accountability. [Read how the Parkland massacre has changed the lives of the survivors in their own words.]Three months after the massacre in Parkland, 10 people were killed in yet another school shooting, this one in Santa Fe, Tex., compounding the Stoneman Douglas students’ outrage and resolve, and placing them in a new role: consoling those who were suffering as they were. “Something about Parkland has been different,” said Melissa Strassner, a survivor of the Columbine school shooting in 1999. “They truly have inspired a nation.”Stoneman Douglas students and parents were outraged by what they viewed as gross incompetence on the part of school and law enforcement officials. Video showed that a sheriff’s deputy assigned to the school did not enter the building as the attack unfolded. Seven other deputies remained outside as gunshots rang out, a state commission found. And another officer prevented paramedics from entering.The school district also appeared to have missed several warning signs about the former student charged in the massacre, Nikolas Cruz. The parents of two 14-year-old students who were killed decided to run for the school board to fix what they thought went wrong. One of them won.And in January, Florida’s new Republican governor, Ron DeSantis, suspended Sheriff Scott Israel for his “neglect of duty” and “incompetence.” Mr. Israel, who is a Democrat and a vocal opponent of the National Rifle Association, continues to insist that the criticism of him is politically motivated and that “there was no wrongdoing on my part.” Multiple deputies have also been suspended, and one ultimately resigned.In the case of Mr. Cruz, the warning signs were many. There were the boasts about killing animals, the expulsion, the stalking of a female classmate, the repeated calls from his mother to the police. School counselors and a sheriff’s deputy decided at one point that he should be forcibly committed for psychiatric evaluation, only to apparently change their minds the next day. Multiple tips to the F.B.I. were left uninvestigated — one woman told the bureau’s tip line she was worried about Mr. Cruz going “into a school and just shooting the place up.” At that time, there was no law in Florida that would have prevented Mr. Cruz from buying a gun or would have allowed the police to take away his weapon. A gun control bill the state passed in March now allows law enforcement — with judicial approval — to bar a person deemed dangerous from owning guns for up to a year. Florida courts granted more than 1,000 such orders in the first nine months after the law took effect, according to The Associated Press. Eight other states have passed similar “red flag” laws in the last year, bringing the total with such laws to 14. Several more states are expected to take up measures in 2019.State legislatures, both Republican- and Democratic-controlled, passed 76 gun control laws in the past year  — from bans on bump stocks and caps on magazine sizes to new minimum-age requirements and expanded background checks. Among the victories for gun control advocates was an omnibus bill in Florida that raised the minimum age to purchase a firearm in the state to 21 and extended the waiting period to three days. In all, more than half the states passed at least one gun control measure in 2018, with Washington and New York joining the trend in 2019. At the same time, there were significantly fewer new state laws expanding gun rights in 2018 than the year before, according to an end-of-year report by the national advocacy group Giffords. Data provided by the N.R.A. also indicated that the number of enacted gun control measures outnumbered pro-gun measures for the first time in at least six years.But at the federal level, any momentum for change was quickly stymied by partisan gridlock. Republican leaders in Congress remained silent as their Democratic colleagues called, once again, for changes in the wake of a mass shooting. The White House flip-flopped on promises to raise the minimum age to purchase rifles and to enforce universal background checks. And the N.R.A. pressed lawmakers, including the president, to give priority to the interests of gun owners.[Nearly 1,200 children have been killed by gun violence since the shooting in Parkland. Read how teenage journalists told their stories.]In the end, the only significant national change was a ban on bump stocks — which members of both parties had been calling for since the Las Vegas shooting in October 2017. The House of Representatives, where Democrats took power in January, has now made gun safety a priority, and the Judiciary Committee passed two gun-control bills on Wednesday that would strengthen background checks and close a loophole that allowed Dylann S. Roof to buy a gun that he used in the Charleston church massacre in 2015. But with a Republican Senate and president, the chances of either measure moving beyond the House are virtually nil.In the days after Parkland, a flood of threats and false alarms heightened the focus on school security nationwide. Schools have turned to an array of measures: hiring armed guards, requiring students to carry clear backpacks, arming teachers with baseball bats. Some campuses have added more cameras and metal detectors or hired companies to monitor students’ social media for potential threats — all of which has created a lucrative market for school security.The president voiced support in the days after Parkland for arming teachers with guns as a way to prevent further massacres. It was an early indicator of the tack that he and congressional Republicans would take in addressing the shooting. In March, Mr. Trump announced the creation of a federal commission to examine school safety proposals, including raising the minimum age for buying certain firearms. But two months later, Education Secretary Betsy DeVos informed a Senate committee that the commission would not look at the role guns play in school violence. Its final report played down the role of guns, and advised schools to improve mental health services and train school personnel to use firearms.When it became clear that Congress would not act on guns, the Parkland students turned their attention to rallying young voters and increasing turnout in the midterm elections in November.Madison Leal, a student at Stoneman Douglas, said in March about politicians who would not take action: “I’m going to vote them out of office. And so is my entire generation. And they’ll be sorry then.” In the summer, a busload of students traveled the country on a Road to Change tour aimed at registering young voters. In tandem with various voter groups and celebrities promoting registration, the Parkland students helped spike record numbers for young voter registration, registering thousands of voters at their rallies. The March for Our Lives campaign reported a 10 percent increase in youth turnout in 2018, compared with the previous midterm elections in 2014.AdvertisementSupported byBy Emily CochraneWASHINGTON — The House on Thursday rebuffed a furious lobbying campaign by the National Rifle Association and approved a revamped Violence Against Women Act that would expand law enforcement’s ability to restrict gun purchases by convicted domestic abusers.The legislation passed easily, 263 to 158, but the divided vote came on what was once a broadly bipartisan measure first passed in 1994. In recent years, partisan rancor over efforts to expand the protections of the legislation have clouded efforts to renew it, and this year, the divide was over gun control.The provisions would close the so-called boyfriend loophole and bar those under a restraining order or who were convicted of abusing, assaulting or stalking a domestic partner from buying guns. The N.R.A. seized on the new measures and warned Congress that it would track and publish how lawmakers voted, hoping to intimidate Republicans and Democrats in Republican-leaning districts.“Do not let the N.R.A. bully you,” Representative Debbie Dingell, Democrat of Michigan, urged her colleagues before the vote, noting that her recently deceased husband, former Representative John Dingell Jr., also a Democrat, was a member of the organization.Thirty-three Republicans bucked the threat and voted with the Democratic majority in favor of the legislation — among them, Representative Brian Fitzpatrick of Pennsylvania, the sole Republican sponsor of the reauthorization. Representative Jeff Fortenberry, Republican of Nebraska, voted present.Democrats, including all of the freshman members who won in districts swept by Donald J. Trump in 2016, stood up to the gun lobby, with only one — Representative Collin C. Peterson of Minnesota — voting no.Many in the new majority campaigned on tightening access to guns, and they appeared to embrace condemnation from the gun lobby as a badge of honor.“Lawmakers should be reading the tea leaves,” said Shannon Watts, the founder of Moms Demand Action for Gun Sense in America, a group that supports restricting gun laws. “In the midterm elections, it was gun safety that got people to the polls.”Other supporters of the legislation argued that the gun provisions made up only a fraction of the protections offered by the bill, and included invaluable resources for survivors.“This wasn’t a gun bill — this is a bill to protect women,” said Lisette Johnson, a member of the Everytown Survivor Network and a survivor of domestic abuse. “This passing today is really a huge support for women and keeping them safer.”Republicans had advocated a clean one-year extension of the current law, which expired in February, arguing that new elements of the legislation were controversial and overreached — in particular, the gun restrictions and language offering additional protections to transgender people.“Can we stop playing political games at the expense of vulnerable women?” asked Representative Elise Stefanik, Republican of New York, before the vote, arguing that the bill put forward by Democrats would “collect dust in the Senate.” (Democrats, who booed vigorously during her speech, rejected her motion.)The vote highlighted the stark contrasts between the new Democratic majority, with its historic number of women, and the Republican minority, which has struggled to attract female voters and to increase the number of conservative women holding office on Capitol Hill. Democrats framed opposition to the legislation’s renewal as a denial of protections for survivors of abuse, efforts to prevent domestic violence and support for law enforcement.Representative Sharice Davids, Democrat of Kansas and one of the first two Native American women elected to Congress in November, presided over the final vote on the measure, which contains a number of protections for women on tribal lands — including a new provision that would allow tribal courts to prosecute nonnative people accused of domestic crimes or dating violence on tribal lands.A number of Democrats, including Ms. Dingell and Representative Katie Porter of California, offered passionate defenses of the legislation, repeatedly drawing on their own experiences as survivors of domestic abuse.“I know that fear, I know that terror and I just want to try to save another family from going through that terror,” Ms. Dingell said at a news conference on Wednesday, recalling being afraid as a child that her father, who had mental illness and owned a gun, would harm her mother or her siblings. “Why would you not close that loophole?”Republicans, beyond objecting to what they said was an infringement on gun ownership, argued that the measure contained other proposals that were too broad for a law intended to protect survivors of assault. In previous hearings and speeches, they had singled out provisions that would expand protections for transgender people and require the Bureau of Prisons to consider the safety and protection of transgender prisoners when giving housing assignments.“We find ourselves debating a VAWA reauthorization act that is literally a Christmas tree of progressive liberal policy objectives, rather than an honest approach to reforming and updating such an important law,” said Representative Debbie Lesko, Republican of Arizona, who is a survivor of domestic abuse.The legislation heads to the Senate, where Senators Dianne Feinstein, Democrat of California, and Joni Ernst, Republican of Iowa, have said they will lead efforts to pass a version. It is unclear how many of the new gun provisions in the House legislation will prevail in the Republican-controlled Senate.“There are a number of improvements in the House bill that I think should be in our version, including preserving improvements already made in the 2013 reauthorization,” Ms. Feinstein said in a statement after the vote. “I hope the Senate will move quickly. This is an important law and one the Senate should take very seriously and act upon expeditiously.”Paul Manafort’s Trail of ScandalsMy Dead Dad’s Porno TapesTen Meter TowerBetween Sound and SilenceCoal Miner to Trump: “Coal Mining Isn’t Coming Back”House Tour | Cary LeibowitzSanctuary City HotlineAdvertisementSupported byBy Sheryl Gay Stolberg and Catie EdmondsonWASHINGTON — House Democrats are poised this week to adopt legislation requiring background checks for all gun purchasers, the first major expansion of gun control laws in a quarter century and the opening salvo in a broader drive to address an issue that once sharply divided the party.In back-to-back votes, the House will take up two separate background check measures. On Wednesday it will consider the Bipartisan Background Checks Act, which would require background checks for all firearm sales, including those sold at gun shows and online. On Thursday it will turn to the Enhanced Background Checks Act, which would extend the time allotted for the F.B.I. to conduct background checks.The action in the House reflects dramatic changes in the political climate over guns that culminated with last year’s midterm elections. A string of mass shootings, coupled with student-led activism after last year’s massacre at Marjory Stoneman Douglas High School in Parkland, Fla., produced a wave of Democratic candidates — including some from Republican-leaning districts — who ran and won while calling for limits on access to guns.“It’s a real moment for the nation,” said one of those Democrats, Representative Lucy McBath of Georgia, who began advocating for gun control after her 17-year-old son, Jordan Davis, was shot dead in 2012. “We’re at a critical mass now where families are just saying they’ve had enough.”Both measures face dim prospects in the Republican-controlled Senate. Senator John Thune of South Dakota, the No. 3 Republican, said Tuesday it was “unlikely” the Senate would take them up.But this week’s House action is still significant. The last time Congress passed major gun control legislation was 1994, when an assault weapons ban was enacted, along with the so-called Brady Bill, which required background checks on most gun sales.Democrats were punished roundly at the polls that year, with Republicans taking control of Congress and not relinquishing it for 12 years. For years afterward, Democrats were skittish about taking up gun-related bills.The assault weapons ban expired in 2004, when Congress was under Republican control. When Democrats held the House from 2007 to 2011, no gun legislation was passed.“There are still differences within our party as to how far we want to go,” Representative Steny D. Hoyer of Maryland, the House Democratic leader, told reporters on Tuesday. But Mr. Hoyer said he is convinced that the two bills being voted on this week have the support of the “overwhelming majority of the American people.”Robin Lloyd, the managing director of the Giffords Law Center to Prevent Gun Violence, praised House Democrats for prioritizing the measures, noting that just a year ago, the Republican-controlled House tried — but failed — to pass legislation that would have required states to recognize concealed weapons permits issued in other states, effectively creating a national law allowing concealed weapons. That bill is a high priority for the National Rifle Association.“Now we’re having the opposite conversation, and I do think that demonstrates how quickly this shift has happened,” Ms. Lloyd said. “It is a paradigm shift from where we were even 18 months ago.”House Republicans, however, have been scathing in their criticism of the bills.“This bill turns law-abiding citizens into criminals and it’s one more step toward federalized gun registration and ultimately gun confiscation,” said Representative Steve Scalise of Louisiana, the Republican whip, who was shot in the hip and gravely wounded in 2017 when a gunman fired on members of the Republican congressional baseball team practicing in Virginia.Republicans including Mr. Scalise argue that expanding background checks would not have prevented many of the mass shootings that have garnered public attention in recent years. Most of those massacres were carried out with guns purchased legally by gunmen who passed background checks.The bills to expand background checks are the first in what could be a series of measures to address gun violence, said Representative Mike Thompson, Democrat of California, who leads a congressional Gun Violence Prevention Task Force. Mr. Thompson said the group has a “pretty aggressive schedule” and is bringing in experts to advise on what will reduce gun violence.Ms. McBath, a task force member, said the group is also looking at measures to reduce children’s access to guns, and also “red flag laws” that give authorities or household members the ability to seek court orders that would prohibit gun purchases by those deemed a risk to themselves or others.Congress did pass a modest gun-related bill last year, the so-called Fix Nics Act, which required federal agencies and states to do a better job of reporting criminal offenses and other information into the national instant check system, or Nics. And since the Parkland massacre, gun safety advocates have made great strides outside the capital; in 2018, legislators in 26 states and the District of Columbia passed 67 gun safety measures, according to a recent analysis by the Giffords Law Center.The last time Congress considered major gun safety legislation was in 2013, after the massacre that killed 20 children and six adults at the Sandy Hook Elementary School in Newtown, Conn.With survivors of mass shootings looking down from the gallery — and amid cries of “Shame on you!” — the Senate at that time fell short of the 60 votes required to break a filibuster on a bipartisan bill similar to the measure the House will take up Wednesday. That bill’s sponsors, Senators Joe Manchin III, Democrat of West Virginia, and Patrick J. Toomey, Republican of Pennsylvania, did not sound optimistic on Tuesday about the prospects for reviving it.“I need some help,” Mr. Manchin said. “I need some Republican help.”Mr. Toomey said he has been “working to try to find where we could get to consensus.” But, he added, “It’s looking like it’s an uphill battle to get 60 votes.”Thursday marks the 25th anniversary of the Brady Bill, named for James. S. Brady, the White House press secretary injured during an assassination attempt on President Ronald Reagan in 1981. That bill took more than six years and seven votes to pass, according to Kris Brown, president of the Brady Center to Prevent Gun Violence, which this week is rebranding itself under the name “Brady.” But it did not address gun show sales or sales over the internet, which have exploded since then.“For us at Brady, it’s a really meaningful and frankly almost emotional moment,” Ms. Brown said, referring to the coming House votes.Under federal law, if a gun consumer does not pass a background check instantly, the F.B.I. has three business days to determine whether there is sufficient evidence to deny a purchase. If they are unable to do so, on the fourth day, the purchaser can return to the dealer and buy a gun.Paul Manafort’s Trail of ScandalsMy Dead Dad’s Porno TapesTen Meter TowerBetween Sound and SilenceCoal Miner to Trump: “Coal Mining Isn’t Coming Back”House Tour | Cary LeibowitzSanctuary City HotlineAdvertisementSupported byBy Charlotte Graham-McLayWELLINGTON, New Zealand — Less than a month after 50 Muslim worshipers in the city of Christchurch were fatally shot in terrorist attacks on two mosques, New Zealand passed a law banning most semiautomatic weapons on Wednesday — a measure supported by all but one of Parliament’s 120 lawmakers.The passage of the bill means temporary restrictions imposed by Prime Minister Jacinda Ardern six days after the massacre, to prevent New Zealanders from stockpiling guns before the law went into effect, will now be permanent. The swift action by lawmakers stands in stark contrast to similar efforts in the United States, where nationwide gun control proposals have stalled despite a series of mass shootings in recent years.“New Zealand stands apart in its widespread availability of weapons of such destructive nature and force,” Ms. Ardern told Parliament on Wednesday. “Today that anomaly ends.”Many Americans can buy a gun in less than an hour. In New Zealand, the process can take weeks or months.She said she could not have faced the surviving victims of the Christchurch attack “hand on heart” and told them “our system and our laws allow these guns to be available and that is O.K. It is not.”The law outlaws military-style semiautomatic weapons and assault rifles, and violators face five years in prison. Some semiautomatic guns will still be allowed, including .22-caliber rifles with magazines holding fewer than 10 rounds, and shotguns with internal magazines that hold no more than five rounds. All of the weapons used by the Christchurch gunman will be banned, as well as parts and magazines that can convert lower-powered guns to higher-powered versions.In her speech, Ms. Ardern, who leads the center-left Labour Party, choked up when she talked about visiting surviving victims at Christchurch Hospital. In addition to those killed, 50 people were injured in the attack.“None of them had one gunshot wound. In every case they spoke of multiple injuries,” Ms. Ardern said. “They will carry disabilities for a lifetime, and that’s before you even consider the psychological impact.”Similar laws had been recommended to New Zealand’s Parliament several times before, but each time they had failed to gain support from lawmakers — including after the mass shooting that had previously been New Zealand’s largest, in which a gunman killed 13 people in 1990.This time, the bill quickly sailed through Parliament. Usually in New Zealand, new laws can take around six months to pass after they are introduced. More than 13,000 people submitted opinions to the government — 60 percent in support of the ban — and some were invited to speak to lawmakers in a single day of public hearings.But while sports shooters and farmers were among those who pleaded for exemptions to the restrictions, lawmakers allowed just two: for commercial pest-control businesses and for licensed collectors of guns, or those who want to keep particular guns as heirlooms or mementos. Collectors will be required to remove a part, making the weapons nonoperational, and store that part at a different location.Ms. Ardern’s center-right opponents used their speeches on Wednesday to praise her leadership since the March 15 attacks and voice their support for the changes. Just one, David Seymour, the leader of the libertarian ACT Party, voted against the law.Mr. Seymour said he was not opposed to more restrictive gun laws but believed that Parliament had rushed the process. “It is not an attempt to improve public safety, it is an exercise in political theater,” said Mr. Seymour, who argued that there was a risk of a growing black market in banned weapons.Ms. Ardern had dismissed concerns that Parliament was moving too fast. “My question here is simple: You either believe that in New Zealand these weapons have a place or you do not. And if you do not, you should be able to agree that we can move swiftly,” she said. “My view is that an argument about process is an argument to do nothing.”Many commentators welcomed the new measures but said work remained to be done to ensure that gun regulations were properly enforced. The government said more measures, including a requirement to register individual firearms, would be in place by the end of the year.“We really need to have a system where we understand where all the firearms in New Zealand are,” said Chris Cahill, president of the Police Association, a national union for police officers. He added that gun owners should be forced to justify wanting to own large numbers of guns, something he said “hadn’t been challenged enough” in the past.200 MILESAucklandTasmanSeaNORTH ISLANDNEW ZEALANDMastertonWellingtonChristchurchSOUTH ISLANDPacificOceanBy The New York TimesNew Zealand’s Muslim leaders agreed that the new law should be just a starting point for more regulation.“This is a law that should have been passed many years ago,” said Mustafa Farouk, the president of the Federation of Islamic Associations of New Zealand. Speaking of the families of the victims, he said, “Passing that law is part of justice for them.”Because Britain’s Queen Elizabeth II is technically New Zealand’s head of state, her representative, New Zealand’s governor-general, will now give the final approval to pass the bill into law. This is considered a formality, and is due to happen Thursday.The government has also established a gun buyback plan, which will run for six months for legal owners of the weapons now banned.John Hart, a sheep and beef farmer from Masterton on New Zealand’s North Island, said he had already turned in one weapon — which he had owned for 10 years — to the police, because after the attacks he felt “uncomfortable” in possession of it.“In the weeks or months or years before Friday the 15th, I hadn’t thought about it. It was just a tool,” he said, adding that after the shootings he realized that in the wrong hands “it was a terrible weapon.”AdvertisementSupported byBy Damien CaveCHRISTCHURCH, New Zealand — When the prime minister announced plans to ban semiautomatic rifles following Friday’s mass shootings, it seemed to be the bold response that many New Zealanders wanted — until the country’s attorney general backpedaled almost immediately and said that might not be the government’s final decision.Even after a massacre that left 50 people dead, the fight over guns and safety will be a fraught one for politicians in peaceful New Zealand, just as it is in the United States.But there is a crucial difference between the two countries that is already apparent: While Washington struggles to take action even as such shootings become more routine, New Zealand’s government is immediately diving into a detailed discussion of further legislative checks on guns.The outright prohibition of semiautomatic weapons proposed by Prime Minister Jacinda Ardern may no longer be on the near-term table. But she’s made clear that lawmakers will look at a range of options, from gun buybacks to restrictions on magazines for semiautomatic rifles.“New Zealand has to have this debate,” said Alexander Gillespie, a law professor at the University of Waikato, who once predicted that the country’s approach to firearms would lead to more mass shootings. “This is a place where your car has to be registered, your dog has to be registered. But your gun doesn’t.”[New Zealand will open an inquiry on what was known about the gunman before the massacre.]New Zealand’s relationship to firearms amounts to a sliding scale of restrictions. Gun owners need a license, but the most commonly used guns, like hunting rifles, are never registered and can be easily bought and sold in large quantities. Handguns and semiautomatic weapons are more closely tracked, requiring a permit for each purchase and a separate license — making it harder but not impossible to amass an arsenal.The mix of freedom and regulation reflects the country’s frontier history, according to experts, who note that New Zealand’s link to weaponry bears a resemblance to the United States, Australia and Canada, but with a few important distinctions.Many Americans can buy a gun in less than an hour. In New Zealand, the process can take weeks or months.There is no right to own a gun here, as there is in the United States; rather, it is considered a privilege with responsibility.The gun culture that has developed tends to be organized, careful and not particularly widespread. Of the 3.9 million New Zealanders of gun-licensing age, 238,000 — 6 percent — have a firearm license, according to GunPolicy.org.In the United States, according to a Pew study from 2017, three out of 10 Americans report owning at least one firearm.New Zealand has also been comfortable with the idea of restricting access to certain weapons for almost as long as the country has existed. In 1845, colonial leaders tried to stop the flow of muskets into tribal areas.After a mass shooting in 1990, when a man killed 13 people, including two 6-year-olds, after a dispute with his neighbor in the seaside town of Aramoana, New Zealand’s Parliament added additional license requirements for semiautomatic weapons and handguns.“On the whole New Zealand doesn’t prohibit firearms,” Mr. Gillespie said. “New Zealand reacts with regulations.”After a handful of failures to push through stronger rules over the past decade, he and others said, the question now is how far the government will try to go to further control guns.Some gun owners argue the laws on the books are enough, and that no amount of additional legislation would have prevented Friday’s massacre.“First of all, this is insanity,” said Mike Loder, a contributor to Kiwi Gun Blog. “We know why he did it. He did it in revenge for a Muslim killing people with a truck. It wasn’t about guns.” Mr. Loder was referring to the shooter’s own widely reported account of his radicalization.But compared with those in the United States, conversations about guns tend to be calmer and less ideological in New Zealand. Many New Zealanders seem eager to find some middle ground, with the latest round of arguments over the country’s gun laws inevitably being shaped by countervailing forces.On the one hand, with its current gun laws, New Zealand had one of the lowest murder rates in the world, as of a week ago. But the horrific bloodshed at the two mosques has clearly shaken what had been the country’s prevailing sense of safety.“We’ve lived in a utopia, but the world’s caught up with us,” said Chris Cahill, head of the Police Association, a union of police officers. “Our innocence is gone.”A shift may already be rippling through the country.On Sunday morning, Raymond Healey, 49, a member of the Christchurch Pistol Club, arrived at a local shooting range, hoping to get some time firing at targets. He was greeted with a white sign, painted in red capital letters: “range closed.”Wearing olive green fleece, khaki pants and untied boots, Mr. Healey said he wasn’t surprised given news of the shootings. He said the gun backlash was also to be expected.“I can understand why people would want more restrictions,” he said.He added that he’d be willing to consider changes. “There are always improvements that could be made to the law,” Mr. Healey said. “There probably are loopholes.”One of the main ones, experts say, involves how easy it is to turn a legal semiautomatic weapon into an illegal killing machine with magazines of ammunition that go beyond what is allowed.Under New Zealand law, the most common A license allows for the purchase of a semiautomatic rifle with a magazine containing seven bullets. An E license is needed for semiautomatics with larger magazines, and it can only be obtained through a more elaborate process of interviews and references.But there are no restrictions on the purchase of magazines.“Anybody can buy them without a license,” Mr. Healey said. “I thought for a long time you shouldn’t be able to do that.”On Saturday, the police said the gunman had modified a “category A firearm,” suggesting that he purchased a semiautomatic with the basic license then added magazines with illegal levels of firepower.Ross Mason, the chairman of the National Rifle Association of New Zealand, which is not connected to the American N.R.A., also said the purchase of magazines raised issues.But he cautioned against a wider ban on semiautomatic rifles in general.“The reason they became available here is because we were trying to eliminate deer from our forest and bush and other four-legged pests, so there was a lot of shooting of these animals from helicopters,” Mr. Mason said. “You needed to have something to fire shots very quickly.”Out of concern that gun sales might be significantly restricted, Radio New Zealand reported that there was a rush on gun stores this weekend, with people “panic buying” weapons.Prime Minister Ardern seems to be listening, at least for now, to all sides in the debate.She also seems determined to do what the United States Congress has not, which is to act.“Our gun laws will change — now is the time,” Ms. Ardern said Saturday. “People will be seeking change, and I am committed to that.”Reporting was contributed by Emily Steel, Charlotte Graham-McLay and Jamie Tarabay from Christchurch; and Danny Hakim from New York.Want more coverage from Australia and New Zealand? Sign up for the weekly Australia Letter, start your day with your local Morning Briefing and join us in our Facebook group.AdvertisementSupported byBy The Associated PressWELLINGTON, New Zealand — New Zealand lawmakers on Tuesday voted overwhelmingly in favor of new gun restrictions during the first stage of a bill they hope to rush into law by the end of next week.The bill would ban the types of weapons a gunman used to kill 50 people at two mosques last month.The bill was backed by both liberals and conservatives, with only a single lawmaker from the 120 that sit in Parliament voting against it. The vote was the first of three that lawmakers must pass before the bill becomes law.Police Minister Stuart Nash said far too many people have access to dangerous guns and lawmakers were driven by the need to ensure public safety."We are also driven by the memory of 50 men, women and children who were taken from their loved ones on the 15th of March," Nash said. "Their memory is our responsibility. We don't ever want to see an attack like this in our country again. We are compelled to act quickly."Seemingly drawing a distinction with the U.S., where gun possession is constitutionally protected, Nash said that in New Zealand, gun ownership remains a privilege and not a right.Conservative lawmaker David Seymour voted against the bill, saying it was too rushed."Doing it in nine days before politicians go on their Easter break is starting to look more like political theater than public safety," he said.But Seymour was so busy explaining to reporters his reasons for opposing the bill that he missed a procedural vote in which he could have tried to slow its passage.Many New Zealanders were shocked at the firepower the gunman was able to legally obtain and favor the legislative changes.Some are opposed. More than 14,000 have signed a petition filed in Parliament which says the law changes are "unjust" for law-abiding citizens and are being driven by emotions.AdvertisementSupported byBy Vivian Wang and Jesse McKinley [What you need to know to start the day: Get New York Today in your inbox.]ALBANY — New York lawmakers on Tuesday approved the most comprehensive set of gun bills in the state in six years, including measures that would ban bump stocks, prohibit teachers from carrying guns in schools and extend the waiting period for gun buyers who do not pass an instant background check.In total, six gun bills passed easily through the State Senate and Assembly, a remarkable sight in a Capitol that for years had resisted almost all new legislation on the subject.Gov. Andrew M. Cuomo, a Democrat, last ushered a major gun safety package into law in 2013, after the massacre at Sandy Hook Elementary School in Newtown, Conn. The governor successfully corralled recalcitrant Senate Republicans into supporting the so-called Safe Act that expanded the state’s ban on assault weapons, tightened certification requirements, increased criminal penalties for illegal guns and closed private sale loopholes.Mr. Cuomo has described the Safe Act as one of his signature achievements. But it has also become a rallying cry for some gun owners and Republican politicians who felt it overreached.“Sometimes history irrefutably bears out your actions,” the governor said on Tuesday, at a news conference lined with gun safety advocates. “Today is the next evolution in this ongoing crusade.”The relative ease of the laws’ passage highlighted, for the second time in just two days, the upheaval that November’s election brought to Albany. Democrats captured the Senate for the first time in a decade, delivering one-party control of state government. Since the legislative session began this month, both chambers have sent long-stymied bills in rapid-fire procession to the governor’s desk.On Monday, for example, a bill to protect child sex abuse victims sailed through the Legislature, 13 years after its introduction. The Senate, which under Republican rule never allowed the bill to reach the floor for a vote, unanimously approved it.Tuesday’s marquee gun bills passed largely along partisan lines. No Republican senators voted to extend the waiting period for completing background checks to 30 days from three. Just one voted for the proposal to ban arming teachers.The most debated item was a so-called red flag bill, which would allow family members, school officials or law enforcement to ask courts to temporarily block someone from buying or owning a gun, if the judge decided that person posed a potential risk.That provision in particular drew an emotional response from Linda Beigel Schulman, whose son, Scott, grew up on Long Island and was teaching at Stoneman Douglas High School in Parkland, Fla. during the massacre there last year; he was killed while helping students flee the shooter.“Parkland would’ve never happened if they had a red flag law,” Ms. Schulman said while sitting alongside Mr. Cuomo, adding that one of the killer’s former teachers told her that the shooter had showed disturbing tendencies.Senator Brian Kavanagh, a Democrat from New York City who sponsored the bill, said the number of New York state residents who die each year — 772 in 2017, according to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention — because of guns “is unacceptable.” He added: “It’s also preventable.”California, Washington, Indiana and Connecticut have similar provisions to keep guns away from high-risk people.Republicans suggested the bill would allow people to randomly curtail Second Amendment rights for many New Yorkers.“Today’s actions infringe upon the rights of law-abiding citizens,” said Senator Pamela Helming, from Central New York.The bill ultimately passed the Senate 42-21, and the Assembly 83-32.A few proposals did earn Republican votes: those that would establish a gun buyback program, and that would prohibit the sale of bump stocks, which enable semiautomatic rifles to fire in sustained, rapid bursts. A bill allowing New York regulators to access mental health records for out-of-state gun buyers passed nearly unanimously.The governor acknowledged that strengthening New York’s gun laws could invite legal challenges from gun advocacy groups and activists, given the conservative tilt of the Supreme Court. The high court’s justices recently announced that they would review a New York City gun law, the court’s first Second Amendment case in nearly a decade.Several Republicans accused Democrats of grandstanding by pushing laws that already exist; for example, President Trump imposed a federal ban on bump stocks last year after the mass murder of 58 people in Las Vegas. (The ban is regulatory, however, not statutory, and several groups have announced their intention to challenge it in court.)Mr. Cuomo, a frequent and favorite antagonist of the National Rifle Association, has been accused of politicizing gun control for his own benefit. But he also has a long record of fighting for stricter gun regulations, and he has frequently pointed out that his public support, especially upstate, never fully recovered after passage of the Safe Act.On Tuesday, Democratic leaders in the Legislature also made their antipathy to widespread gun use clear.“I personally don’t agree with it, but I respect it,” the Assembly speaker, Carl E. Heastie, said of the Second Amendment.Senator Andrea Stewart-Cousins, the Senate majority leader, promised further action in the coming months. The only other major gun legislation passed since the Safe Act was a law last year to take guns away from domestic abusers.“It will not be six years, believe me, between sensible gun laws,” she said.AdvertisementSupported byThe EthicistBy Kwame Anthony AppiahAs a gun owner who abhors the ‘‘slippery slope’’ philosophy of the N.R.A., every new mass shooting sickens me. I would like to sell one of my three weapons and give the proceeds to March for Our Lives or Everytown for Gun Safety. Is it better to: 1) Sell it knowing the $750-$1,000 would do some good; 2) Keep the gun knowing it won’t be used; or 3) Destroy it/surrender it to the police for disposal? Name WithheldBy the ‘‘slippery slope’’ philosophy of the N.R.A., I assume you mean its tendency to argue that any proposed gun regulation is a step toward canceling the Second Amendment: to equate restriction with abolition. I assume too that you think that some of these mass shootings could have been stopped by laws that the N.R.A. opposes and that are nevertheless consistent with the Constitution. The gun-control organizations you mention share those beliefs; sending them a check would express your support and enable you to join the community of people trying to do something about gun violence.But the case against (1) is that your check, which isn’t going to make the difference between success and failure for either of these gun-control groups, scarcely changes the likelihood of future gun deaths, while selling the gun marginally increases the likelihood that it will end up being used in a crime. As for (2), you can’t be absolutely sure that a gun won’t cause harm just because it’s in your house. For one thing, someone might break in and steal it; for another, you might use it against yourself. Suicide, remember, accounts for a majority of gun-related deaths. If you went for (3), you could render the gun harmless by having it destroyed, but doing so wouldn’t much change the likelihood of future gun deaths, either.One reason that I have misgivings about what’s been called ‘‘quandary ethics’’ — ethics conceived of as solving puzzles like these — is that, as in this case, it can be close to impossible to calculate the costs and benefits of the various outcomes you consider. A deeper problem is that there are typically options you haven’t considered. In this case, you could wait for a gun-buyback program — they’ve had these recently in many cities — and send the money (which would be less than the market value of your weapon) to one of these organizations, thus both supporting gun control and making sure that the weapon won’t be used for malign purposes.For that matter, you could throw yourself into the work of one of these organizations, which are going to succeed only if more of their supporters aren’t content with just sending them money. The influence of the N.R.A. can’t be reduced to the power of the purse; though its political expenditures far exceed those of gun-control groups, its finances are surprisingly precarious. And note that the labor sector, say, hugely outspends it, while its political power has seemed to diminish. Many political experts would say that the N.R.A.’s ability to mobilize its millions of members has a lot to do with its efficacy. If gun control matters to you, your support shouldn’t be limited to your checkbook.I agreed to sponsor a cousin’s immigration application, which involved affirming I can and will provide the applicant with a financial safety net for seven years. I’d met the cousin only once, but I count his aunts among my favorite relatives and was told by his father that he is financially independent, hardworking and eager to contribute to his new homeland.With the process underway, my cousin’s father came to visit, and the two insisted on conveying their gratitude by hosting my family at a brunch. Somehow the subject of Trump came up. Though my husband and I did not vote for the president, we maintain relationships with friends and family who did. Yet hearing the young man that we put on the road to citizenship express his admiration for Trump and his anti-immigration policies struck us as odd. I prodded ever so gently: At what point should the president close the gate — before or after your papers are finalized? Without a hint of irony, he clarified that, of course, he was referring to the wrong kind of immigrants. Hours later, I couldn’t shake the notion that we’d made a terrible mistake. Yes, my husband and I refuse to allow politics to define our social circle, but could we remain neutral, knowing that we’d inadvertently recruited a new supporter of Trump’s views on immigration, which we regard as racist — or worse? And if we decide that we cannot, should we break with our extended family by revoking our support of my cousin’s application? Or could we let the cousin know that we find his views on immigration hypocritical and make our ongoing support of his application contingent on his joining the 50 percent of Americans who choose not to exercise their right to vote? Name WithheldI’m not sure you’ve found a great way to model social tolerance. Your cousin sounds pretty blinkered in his views, I’ll grant. But adding one more bigot to the American population isn’t going to make a difference in our politics. And if he ends up, as is most likely, living in one of our great, culturally plural metropolises, his views on immigration may well evolve. Either way, it would be wrong to try to blackmail him into not exercising the right to vote — and ineffectual, because such an agreement would be unenforceable.Nor is it fair, at this point, to pull out from your affidavit of support, unless you think that something you were told and that you therefore attested to was substantially untrue. You do have every right to tell him — like anyone else who expresses political views you consider odious — why you think he’s wrong. Given what you have done for him, he owes it to you to pay attention to what you say. But if your sponsoring your cousin was right, it didn’t become wrong when you learned about his opinions.The point can be broadened. Policies you support in principle aren’t invalidated when their beneficiaries turn out to have vexing or perverse views. We don’t withdraw Social Security Disability Insurance from those who think that its other beneficiaries are largely wastrels. We don’t deny Medicare coverage to those who are skeptical of the program. We can’t give up on public-health measures to reduce suicide simply because suicide rates are highest in ‘‘red state’’ regions that aren’t inclined to back such measures. And a partisan who favors only the expanded immigration of people inclined to support her party isn’t interested in immigration reform; she’s interested in allies. Your cousin’s views, as I say, may evolve; perhaps yours will, too.My stepdaughter-in-law confided in me that she is planning on leaving my stepson. They have a young child. She also informed me that she’s gay. She asked me to be discreet with this information, but I feel compelled to do something; I don’t feel that it’s fair for my stepson to be hit out of the blue. Is there a way for me to encourage her to talk to her husband, or should I say something directly to him? I’m fine with keeping the information about her sexuality secret. It’s more her plan to dump him that is weighing on me. I’m concerned not only for his well-being but also for how this secret could affect my relationship with him if he finds out I knew and didn’t say anything. Name WithheldAdvertisementSupported byBy Nick Corasaniti[What you need to know to start the day: Get New York Today in your inbox.]It began as an operation targeting a cocaine ring in southern New Jersey. But after investigators listened to a wire tap, the case took on an unexpected focus: do-it-yourself firearms made from parts easily found online.The suspects in New Jersey are accused of trying to sell several homemade AR-15 assault-style rifles that are known as ghost guns because they cannot be tracked. The AR-15 rifle is a powerful weapon similar to the one used to kill 11 people last year at a Pittsburgh synagogue.On Monday, New Jersey law enforcement officials announced the arrests of four men who became the first defendants charged under a law passed last year that makes it illegal to buy, manufacture, possess or sell homemade guns in the state. California is the only other state that restricts such weapons, but New Jersey’s version is far more stringent, according to national gun control groups.In fact, one of the suspects is heard on a wiretap specifically citing New Jersey’s law and saying they had to move the weapon sales out of state.“Ghost guns are a real and dangerous menace,” Gurbir Grewal, the attorney general of New Jersey, said in a news conference in Camden where he discussed the case. “They offer criminals, convicted felons, terrorists, domestic abusers, people who we all agree shouldn’t access firearms, the ability to access them.”New Jersey already has some of the country’s toughest gun laws, but buying parts individually and assembling them at home — often with the help of online videos and instructions — could allow people with criminal records and others who would not pass background checks to obtain guns.Marketed to gun enthusiasts who enjoy building their own firearms, companies that sell kits are making it easier for guns to circulate illegally, law enforcement authorities and gun control advocates said.“You go to some of the websites, they offer you discounts if you buy a pack of five or a pack of 10,” said J. Adam Skaggs, the chief counsel and policy director at the Giffords Law Center to Prevent Gun Violence. “Now, you ask yourself, am I going to buy a discounted 10-pack of ghost guns because I want to build myself 10 guns to use at the range? Or am I going to buy a 10-pack if I’m a would-be trafficker who wants to start a little factory of my own and sell these at a markup to people who can’t pass a background check?”Across the country, there have been arrests involving ghost guns with the accused charged with violating other state and federal laws. In New York, a police sergeant was accused of selling ghost guns to members of a motorcycle gang who had criminal records.The difficulty of disrupting illegal ghost gun operations is underscored by the circuitous route that led authorities to the trafficking ring in New Jersey.The investigation began as a probe into a large cocaine ring in Lindenwold, a town in Camden County, Mr. Grewal said. Law enforcement authorities only became aware of the illegal gun trafficking through conversations between two of the alleged members of the criminal network that were secretly recorded.“They changed some law,” one suspect was recorded saying, “so we gotta go over to Philly to pick them up.”A second suspect said, “We just gotta go out of state now.’’The suspects would have parts for guns shipped across the Delaware River to Pennsylvania to get around the New Jersey law, and then would bring them back into the state, Mr. Grewal said.Law enforcement officials eventually recovered six AR-15 rifles made from parts without serial numbers, which were being offered on the black market for $1,100 to $1,300, nearly double the market price for an AR-15 assault-style rifle. They also intercepted parts for two more assault-style rifles that had been shipped to Pennsylvania.Another eight men were also arrested as part of the illicit operation and were charged mostly with drug-related offenses.Though these were the first arrests for trafficking ghost guns under the new law, Mr. Grewal said other ghost guns have turned up in the state. The State Police had recovered “well over 15 in the last year,’’ he said.“We are starting to see them at crime scenes,’’ he added. “We are starting to see them in our investigations. They are not an abstract threat. They are a real threat to public safety.”There are multiple investigations into ghost gun manufacturers and criminal networks, Mr. Grewal said. But, he added, responsibility also rests with manufacturers.“When you see repeatedly the same address and the same individuals at the same location continuing to order parts and parts and parts and parts for the same types of guns, some red flags have to go up,” Mr. Grewal said.Follow Nick Corasaniti on Twitter: @NYTnickc AdvertisementSupported byBy Mike IvesIt was the liquor talking, apparently.Two officials from an anti-immigrant political party in Australia said on Tuesday that an undercover recording of them explaining the political influence that money from the American gun lobby could potentially buy was not what it seemed.Their comments, they said, were just small talk made over rounds of scotch.In the recording, James Ashby, the chief of staff for Pauline Hanson, leader of the One Nation party, is heard to say that his right-wing party could “own” the Australian Senate and House of Representatives with a $20 million donation from the American gun lobby.The recording — by a reporter for Al Jazeera — was made in the United States during a trip last year, just weeks before an Australian law banning foreign political donations took effect.The recording was revealed on Monday in the first part of a two-part Al Jazeera documentary, “How to Sell a Massacre,” for which the Australian reporter Rodger Muller posed for years as a gun-rights advocate.Through the guise of a fake organization called Gun Rights Australia, Mr. Muller introduced Mr. Ashby and Steve Dickson, the One Nation party’s Queensland leader, to representatives from the National Rifle Association and Koch Industries during a trip to the United States in September.On Tuesday, Prime Minister Scott Morrison said on Twitter that reports of One Nation officials soliciting donations from the American gun lobby “to influence our elections & undermine our gun laws that keep us safe are deeply concerning.”Mr. Morrison, the leader of Australia’s Liberal Party, also accused One Nation of trying to “sell Australia’s gun laws to the highest bidders,” and said the revelations were another reason Australians should not vote for the One Nation party in general elections expected in May.Bill Shorten, the leader of the opposition Labor Party, accused One Nation of a “betrayal of the Australian political system.”“The idea of One Nation political party operatives going to the United States, seeking millions of dollars, promising to water down gun law protection in Australia — that was absolutely horrifying,” Mr. Shorten said.But Mr. Ashby told reporters on Tuesday that the meetings with the N.R.A. had been about sourcing technology and gaining “an understanding of how they operate.” He said they were never about requesting $20 million, and that he and Mr. Dickson had traveled to the United States on a fact-finding mission.“The conversations that have been recorded where there is talk of $10 and $20 million dollars — I’ll be the first to admit, we’d arrived in America, we’d got on the sauce, we’d had a few drinks,” Mr. Ashby said.“And that’s where those discussions took place,” he continued. “Not with any potential donors. No one but Rodger Muller, Steve Dickson and myself.”Many Americans can buy a gun in less than an hour. In New Zealand, the process can take weeks or months.Mr. Dickson said that Mr. Muller, the journalist, had “seemed to be a very reasonable guy” — an impression he said was bolstered by Mr. Muller’s Akubra bush hat, akin to an American cowboy hat. He said the conversation was merely a product of “having scotches for three or four hours.”“I never, ever, suspected in my wildest dreams that that guy was employed by a Middle Eastern country, by Al Jazeera, as an Australian spy to interfere in Australian politics,” Mr. Dickson said.Al Jazeera, a satellite network based in Qatar and owned by that country’s government, said in a report on Tuesday that the documentary “provides a rare inside view of how the N.R.A. deliberates over mass shootings and seeks to manipulate media coverage to push its pro-gun agenda.”In an email, Jennifer Baker, the director of public affairs for the N.R.A., called Al Jazeera a “state-owned anti-gun” network and said, “At no time did the N.R.A. contribute funding to any Australian political party or Gun Rights Australia.”The Australian government introduced some of the world’s toughest gun laws in 1996, after a gunman with a semiautomatic rifle killed 35 people in the town of Port Arthur.The rate of intentional gun deaths in Australia had fallen about 33 percent from 1986 to 1996, the year of the Port Arthur massacre. But the decline accelerated after the new gun control measures were enacted, with the rate dropping about 60 percent from 1996 to 2006. President Barack Obama later cited the laws as a potential model for the United States.One Nation’s website says that the focus of its firearms policy is to “move away from trying to criminalize firearms ownership to punishing criminals for the use of firearms to commit crimes.” Among other measures, the party’s platform calls for reducing waiting periods for handgun purchases.In response to the new documentary, One Nation said in a statement that its members always complied with the law. It also called Al Jazeera “a state owned propaganda arm of the Qatari government that supports Islamic extremist groups and are not a legitimate media organization.”In 2017, Ms. Hanson, the party’s leader, sparked controversy by walking into the Australian Senate wearing a burqa as a way of drawing attention to her party’s push to ban full-face coverings in public. The move drew strong criticism from other senators.AdvertisementSupported byBy Sarah MervoshIt took New Zealand just six days to announce an immediate plan to change to the nation’s gun policy after a gunman killed 50 people at two mosques in Christchurch last week.On Thursday, a day after the first victims were laid to rest, Prime Minister Jacinda Ardern announced a national ban on all military-style semiautomatic weapons, all high-capacity ammunition magazines and all parts that allow weapons to be modified into the kinds of guns used in last week’s attack.Ms. Ardern is expected to encounter little resistance in Parliament. The new law could be in place as soon as April 11.It is unclear how the weapons ban will be felt in New Zealand, where there are plenty of guns but relatively few murders. Since 2007, gun homicides have been in the single digits every year except in 2009, when there were 11.But the swift action already stands in stark contrast to the federal response to mass shootings in the United States, which has the highest rate of gun ownership in the world and is one of only a few countries that start with the assumption that gun ownership is a right, not a privilege.After a gunman killed 58 people in Las Vegas in 2017, it took 443 days for the United States to ban bump stocks, the attachments that enable semiautomatic rifles to fire in sustained, rapid bursts, which the gunman used in the attack. And after a mass shooting at a high school in Parkland, Fla., last year led to a wave of student activism, the House of Representatives voted to require background checks for all gun purchasers in February. It was the first significant gun control bill to clear the chamber in a quarter of a century, but it was unlikely to even be taken up in the Republican-controlled Senate.In most countries, mass shootings account for a small proportion of gun deaths. But they are often the political impetus for legislative change that can help prevent other kinds of gun violence, including intimate-partner violence and suicide.Here is a look at how some other countries took action after mass shootings.____Ms. Ardern said the overhauls planned in New Zealand were partially inspired by changes Australia made after a mass shooting there in 1996.After a gunman with a semiautomatic rifle killed 35 people near a popular tourist site in the Tasmanian town of Port Arthur, John Howard, Australia’s conservative prime minister at the time, introduced a federal law to officially make guns a privilege, not a right. Gun owners were forced to provide a valid reason for owning a weapon, such as farming or hunting. Licensing rules were tightened, a 28-day waiting period for gun purchases was imposed and a national gun registry was established.The overhaul also severely restricted firearms, including a ban on almost all automatic and semiautomatic rifles, as well as shotguns. Australia bought back more than 650,000 firearms, to the resentment of many rural gun owners.Australia has not had a shooting as deadly as the Port Arthur massacre since 1996. Research shows the country also saw a decline in homicide and suicide after the legislative change, although researchers disagree about whether the ban can be credited for reducing homicides, which had already been declining.Australia is a much smaller country than the United States and also had fewer barriers to enacting gun control: There is no constitutional right to bear arms, for example, and there are no pro-gun lobbying groups with the influence of the National Rifle Association.____In 1987, a gunman in the southern English town of Hungerford killed 16 people, leading to tough British laws that required shotgun owners to register their weapons and prohibited semiautomatic weapons.Nearly a decade later, another gunman walked into a primary school in Dublane, Scotland, and killed 16 small children and their teacher. The gunman had been granted permits for all four guns used in the shooting, including two semiautomatic pistols.Afterward, the British government took action to limit gun ownership by civilians. By the end of 1997, Parliament had outlawed the private ownership of nearly all handguns.____In 2002, a 19-year-old expelled student returned to his high school in Erfurt, in eastern Germany, armed, and killed 16 people.That year, the German government tightened gun laws, including raising the legal age for carrying sports weapons to 21 from 18 and requiring gun buyers under 25 to present certification that they are medically and psychologically fit.Germany strengthened gun laws even further after another shooting in 2009, when a 17-year-old got his hands on one of his father’s guns and went on a rampage at his school in Winnenden, in southwest Germany, killing 15 people. The new regulations included allowing for random checks on weapons owners.As of 2015, gun-related crimes were far more unusual in Germany than in the United States.____Canada has had tough restrictions on handguns and automatic weapons since the 1930s. But the rules were expanded to include rifles and shotguns after a gunman with a semiautomatic hunting rifle stormed an engineering school in Montreal in 1989.Shouting “I hate feminists,” he separated the women from the men and killed 14 female students before turning the gun on himself.After that shooting, rifles and other long guns had to be registered like handguns and a majority of semiautomatic weapons. Gun owners were also required to obtain a license.But the long gun registry was unpopular in rural and northern areas, and, over the objections of police forces and some provinces, was abolished in 2012.Efforts to keep track of rifle and shotgun sales — the majority of firearms in Canada — continue to be much debated. The province of Quebec introduced its own long gun registry last year.Max Fisher contributed reportingFollow Sarah Mervosh on Twitter: @smervoshAdvertisementSupported byCases like one on the Supreme Court docket this term often lead to more injuries and deaths.By Jonathan M. MetzlDr. Metzl is a professor and the research director at the Safe Tennessee Project.A case before the Supreme Court this term could significantly affect whether densely populated cities like New York have the right to set their own gun policies.At a glance, New York State Rifle and Pistol Association v. City of New York is a limited dispute. It pits residents who have “premises licenses,” which allow them to possess guns only at their homes, against a New York City ordinance that restricts their travel with their weapons to shooting ranges and clubs within city borders. If the petitioners — a gun advocacy group along with three of these individuals — prevail, those with premises licenses will be allowed to take their handguns with them to out-of-town ranges. Not a big deal, right? Actually, it is. The case has implications far broader than sport shooting. If the court decides against the city, New York City and other cities around the country could become far more dangerous places.As a university professor and the research director of a Southern gun violence prevention organization, I’ve spent the past eight years tracking how state and local-level court rulings and legislation promoted as limited in scope lead to sweeping changes in the ways people buy, carry and use firearms. Time and again, I’ve found that seemingly modest relaxation of local gun laws like the one at issue in New York undercut the ability of cities and communities to set their own regulations, and alter ways that people live and die.For instance, in 2007, pro-gun politicians in Missouri repealed a seemingly arcane 1921 law governing the purchase of concealable firearms. Supporters of the repeal (backed by the National Rifle Association) pitched the change as simply easing a tedious and outdated requirement that prospective gun buyers fill out paperwork in person at sheriff’s offices. But this modest action was the first rumbling of an avalanche. Missouri gun proponents built on the repeal to legalize “permitless carry” by anyone 19 years of age or older, nullify local gun-control ordinances, expand “stand your ground” protections and empower citizens to carry weapons into restaurants, bars, streets, schools and seemingly everyplace else. The police even lost the ability to disarm anyone carrying a firearm unless the individual was under arrest. The inability of local government to make gun laws threatened to turn Missouri into the “Wild West,” in the words of an exasperated City Council member in Webster Groves.In Tennessee, N.R.A.-supported politicians pushed through legislation allowing guns in parks. Only after passage did people discover that the law weakened the state’s ability to restrict weapons at concerts and state fairs. A 2017 law in Arkansas permitted guns on college campuses — which made guns legal at Southeast Conference football games and other large sporting events. So-called guns-in-trunks laws in Ohio and some other states allowed employees to store guns and ammunition in their vehicles while at work — followed by jumps in the number of guns stolen out of cars. Sweeping open-carry legislation in Texas meant public libraries could not keep guns out of the stacks.While these changes expand gun rights for certain people, they invariably lead to significant increases in  injuries and deaths. Right-to-carry laws correlate with increases in violent crime and rising homicide and suicide rates, and also raise the likelihood that incidents of conflict like road rage or domestic arguments will turn fatal. For instance, homicides committed with guns in Missouri increased by 25 percent in the three years after the 2007 repeal, and more Missouri guns were recovered in crimes in neighboring states. Gun suicides rose over this period as well. Data from the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention shows that states with the weakest gun laws and highest rates of gun ownership invariably have the highest rates of overall gun mortality. A recent study found that they also have higher rates of mass shootings.Beyond the direct health effects, allowing guns in public spaces changes how we interact with one another. My research shows that people become more wary when they think a stranger might be armed — a mistrust that fuels further gun sales. Racial tensions and stereotypes often accompany this anxiety. “I see white guys walking around Sam’s Club with guns on their hips,” an African-American man in Missouri told me, which he saw as armed racial intimidation.In an ideal world, New York City might serve as a model for effective gun policy. Gun-related injuries and deaths have been falling for the past decade — not coincidentally, over the same period that the city got serious about gun laws. New York has remarkably low rates of gun trauma for a United States city of its size. Municipal and state laws and regulations also effectively limit gun trafficking. Much of this success results from policies that would most likely be in jeopardy should the Rifle and Pistol Association case go against New York — for instance, restrictions on where people can carry guns and prohibitions on tourists’ bringing weapons into the city. Perhaps most important, regulations governing how people carry guns in New York City differ from those applied in parts of the state that have long and respected traditions of firearm ownership, such as in upstate New York.At stake in cases like Rifle and Pistol is the possible nationalization of disastrous policies from pro-gun states — not just loosened gun laws but also pre-emptions of how state or local governments can decide what works best. If the Supreme Court rules in favor of the plaintiffs in any one of these types of cases, the decision could signal that more significant gun control laws might not withstand legal challenges. Additionally, the justices could expand Second Amendment protections beyond the home, an issue left open in previous Supreme Court decisions, and could open the door to overturning longstanding laws governing concealed-carry, gun permitting and other restrictions enacted at the local and state levels.The current composition of the court suggests we should brace for decisions that upend local and state regulations in favor of nationally mandated policies that make it ever easier for people to purchase and carry guns. The nomination of President Trump’s first court appointee, Neil Gorsuch, was buoyed by a $1 million ad campaign by the National Rifle Association. And his second appointee, Brett Kavanaugh, wrote a 2011 circuit court dissent in which he argued that Washington, D.C., could not ban semiautomatic rifles on its streets because the right to bear arms superseded its interest in public safety.Missouri, Tennessee and Washington are not New York City. People are generally not allowed to carry guns around New York City, to safeguard the delicate and at times tense choreography that gives the city its charm. New Yorkers cram into crowded subway cars, brush by one another on busy sidewalks and drive haltingly through traffic-filled streets. This bustle of the everyday builds on often unspoken communal understandings of neighborliness and trust.But imagine a New York where more and more of your neighbors carry guns. If the Supreme Court sides with the complainants in Rifle and Pistol, you won’t need to imagine.Jonathan M. Metzl is a professor at Vanderbilt University and the author of “Dying of Whiteness: How the Politics of Racial Resentment is Killing America’s Heartland.”AdvertisementSupported byBy Simon Romero and Timothy WilliamsALBUQUERQUE — New Mexico’s governor is feuding with county sheriffs, accusing them of going “rogue” by refusing to enforce new gun control legislation. Counties in Oregon are passing militia-backed measures against stricter gun laws. Washington State is warning sheriffs they could face legal action if they don’t run enhanced background checks approved by voters.As states have approved dozens of restrictive gun control measures since the shooting at Marjory Stoneman Douglas High School in Parkland, Fla., last year, efforts to resist such laws have gathered strength around the nation as rural gun owners say their rights are being violated.“This is just a gun-grab measure,” Shane Ferrari, the sheriff of San Juan County, said of a provision that requires background checks on most gun sales in New Mexico, signed into law this month by Gov. Michelle Lujan Grisham, a Democrat.Sheriff Ferrari, a Republican, said he believed that the new law was a violation of the Second Amendment and the state’s existing gun laws, and that he would not enforce it unless a court ruling told him to do so. And all but a handful of counties in New Mexico have expressed similar opposition.The impasses — between local sheriffs and elected officials in states now controlled by Democrats — are raising the specter of a constitutional showdown over enforcement of the new gun laws. Some of the gun rights advocates say they are simply drawing inspiration from strategies employed by liberal critics of the Trump administration: They compare their efforts to declare “Second Amendment sanctuary” counties to so-called sanctuary cities opposing the federal government’s immigration crackdown.“Critics are calling these new laws Gestapo-style tactics when that’s the furthest thing from the truth,” said Victor Snover, the mayor of Aztec, a town in San Juan County that was shaken by a school shooting in 2017 in which a former student killed two students and himself.Mr. Snover, a Democrat who is also a teacher at Aztec High School, called the measure “common sense and reasonable.” He added, “But unfortunately we live in a hyperpartisan time when avoiding tragedies isn’t viewed as reasonable.”In New Mexico and elsewhere, the disputes generally reflect tension between cities that support stricter gun laws and rural areas that want to bolster protections for gun owners. The pushback against new laws generally seeks to maintain existing gun ownership rights; most have not yet been challenged in court.The disputes around the country over the gun control measures raise vexing questions about the rule of law. Governors claim that local sheriffs cannot pick which laws to enforce, but some states have already grappled with low compliance with other gun laws.“There’s a real tension on this issue between urban and rural identities that doesn’t necessarily fit nicely into party loyalties,” said Lonna Atkeson, a political-science professor at the University of New Mexico. She noted that some of the counties vehemently opposing the state’s new gun control legislation are solidly Democratic.Elsewhere, dozens of counties in Illinois have approved “gun sanctuary” resolutions meant to signal local discontent with gun control measures approved by the State Legislature, which is dominated by Democrats.Among the measures approved by Illinois last year was one requiring a 72-hour waiting period for all gun purchases and a so-called red flag bill, which allows relatives and law enforcement officials to ask courts to confiscate firearms from people deemed a threat to themselves or others.In Oregon, where the State Legislature is currently debating several gun control measures — including a bill that would forbid the sale of assault rifles to people under 21 — voters in eight counties have approved ordinances stating that residents have the right to own semiautomatic weapons and high-capacity magazines, even if federal and state law bans them.Some of the most public discontent, however, has come in Washington, where a divide between rural and urban areas has become a recurring political split.In November, nearly 60 percent of Washington State voters approved an initiative prohibiting anyone under 21 from purchasing a semiautomatic rifle and requiring buyers to undergo enhanced background checks. (State law already barred those under 21 from buying a handgun.) Long guns that employ manual operations, including pumps and bolts, could still be purchased at age 18.The law also mandated a 10-day waiting period and completion of a firearms training course. The initiative also allowed prosecutors to charge gun owners with crimes if the gun was stored improperly and someone unable to legally own a gun used it to commit a crime.Most of the law is scheduled to take effect July 1, though the Second Amendment Foundation, a nonprofit group based in Washington State that supports gun rights, has filed a lawsuit seeking to block it.Already, though, more than a dozen sheriffs in Washington have said they will refuse to enforce the law.That has set up a showdown between them and Bob Ferguson, the attorney general.Mr. Ferguson has warned the sheriffs that they have a legal responsibility to enforce the new law in the same manner they are sworn to uphold other laws prohibiting criminal activity.“Local law enforcement officials are entitled to their opinions about the constitutionality of any law, but those personal views do not absolve us of our duty to enforce Washington laws and protect the public,” Mr. Ferguson wrote in a letter last month.But Bob Songer, the sheriff of Klickitat County, a rural county in southern Washington, said that the law violated gun owners’ rights.“There is no way in hell I’m going to be going after their guns if they are honest citizens,” he said. “What I’ve told people is: I’m not giving up my guns, and I don’t expect them to give up theirs.”The sheriff dismissed the pressure from the state’s attorney general to abide by the law.“They are not the boss of the sheriff,” he said. “The only bosses I have are the voters of Klickitat County.”Simon Romero reported from Albuquerque and Timothy Williams from New York.AdvertisementSupported byBy Danny HakimThe flash point was Thomas the Tank Engine.Last September, the National Rifle Association’s famously combative spokeswoman, Dana Loesch, provoked widespread outrage when she took to the gun group’s streaming service to mock ethnic diversity on the popular children’s program “Thomas & Friends,” portraying the show’s talking trains in Ku Klux Klan hoods. Now, growing unease over the site’s inflammatory rhetoric, and whether it has strayed too far from the N.R.A.’s core gun-rights mission, has put its future in doubt.The site, NRATV, is a central part of the organization’s messaging apparatus. Since its creation in 2016, it has adopted an increasingly apocalyptic, hard-right tone, warning of race wars, describing Barack Obama as a “fresh-faced flower-child president,” calling for a march on the Federal Bureau of Investigation and comparing journalists to rodents.In recent weeks, in a rare airing of internal debate at the N.R.A., two prominent board members expressed concerns about NRATV to The New York Times. Their statements were released through the N.R.A. itself, amid what was described as an internal review of NRATV and its future.“Since the founding of NRATV, some, including myself and other board members, have questioned the value of it,” Marion Hammer, the group’s most formidable lobbyist and a key adviser to its chief executive, Wayne LaPierre, said in a statement. “Wayne has told me and others that NRATV is being constantly evaluated — to make sure it works in the best interest of the organization and provides an appropriate return on investment.”The reassessment underscores a debate within the N.R.A. over how broad its activism should be. And it comes as the organization faces a storm of challenges, including a series of mass shootings that has created a new generation of gun-control activists.Congressional investigations into the N.R.A.’s possible Russia ties were energized after Maria Butina, a suspected Russian agent, pleaded guilty in December to using the N.R.A. in a political influence operation. And the organization, incorporated in New York, may have a potent foe in Letitia James, the state’s recently elected attorney general, who has vowed to investigate the N.R.A.’s tax-exempt status.As falling membership dues put the N.R.A. under further strain, board members have also expressed concern about the size of payments to the ad firm that produces NRATV, Ackerman McQueen. The firm and its affiliates pocketed $40 million from the N.R.A. in 2017; billings directly to Ackerman have increased nearly 50 percent since 2015. One prominent host, Dan Bongino, left amid cutbacks at NRATV, but he said the site had tried to retain him.Ackerman, a partner to the gun group  since the “I’m the N.R.A.” campaign of the 1980s, runs the NRATV Twitter account, has done polling work for the organization and revamped its gun safety program for children. It has also been credited with a slick makeover of Mr. LaPierre — who, in the words of one former N.R.A. lobbyist, previously resembled an “introverted chess champion.”Mr. LaPierre’s wife, Susan, has worked for an Ackerman subsidiary, and there has come to be a revolving door between the two companies, with many employees having worked by turns for both NRATV and Ackerman.Oliver L. North, the N.R.A. president, has a contract with Ackerman, though the N.R.A. would not disclose its size. As part of the relationship, Mr. North, a former Fox News pundit, hosts media programming and special events, like the show “American Heroes,” which recently began airing on NRATV.The N.R.A., a nonprofit, has also directed $18 million since 2010 to a private company jointly owned by executives of Ackerman and the N.R.A., according to records and interviews.“It is clear to me that NRATV is an experiment and Wayne is evaluating the future of the enterprise,” Willes K. Lee, a board member who leads the N.R.A. Outreach Committee, said in a statement to The Times.After the Thomas the Tank Engine video, he said, Mr. LaPierre appeared “livid and embarrassed” in a meeting with the outreach group. “He apologized to the entire committee and spent hours listening to our concerns.”Ms. Loesch has emerged as NRATV’s most visible host, deriding gun-control advocates as “tragedy-dry-humping whores” and vowing to combat the left with what she called the “clenched fist of truth” — a body part that the comedian John Oliver said was located “a little past the bent elbow of nonsense.” In one video, she warned The Times, “We’re coming for you”; in another, she threatened to burn a copy of the newspaper.Chuck Holton, an NRATV correspondent, attributed terrorist activity in Europe to “the broader problem of multiculturalism and socialism” and to “gender-bending.” He also claimed that left-wing groups, the billionaire George Soros and the Venezuelan government were trying “to influence the 2018 midterms by sending Honduran migrants north in the thousands.”Grant Stinchfield, a host, claimed that “all radicalized terrorists are Muslims,” overlooking mass shooters like Dylann Roof, who killed nine black churchgoers in Charleston, S.C., in 2015.Such far-ranging commentary has raised questions among some N.R.A. members about the scope of the organization’s messaging.“The N.R.A. shouldn’t be putting this out,” said Jeff Knox, an N.R.A. member who runs the Firearms Coalition, a smaller advocacy organization. “It’s not gun rights; it’s red meat for the hard right.”Mr. Knox’s father, Neal, was an N.R.A. board member who played a leading role in an effort to fire Ackerman in the 1990s amid discontent over its growing influence. A faction loyal to Mr. LaPierre ultimately prevailed, leading to a purge of the board and allowing the two organizations to become more deeply intertwined.“Why are we getting so involved in left-right politics instead of sticking close to our issue, the Second Amendment?” the younger Mr. Knox asked.Ackerman declined to comment, but in a recent interview in The Oklahoman, Revan McQueen, the firm’s chief executive, said his company’s approach was evolving from pure advertising to a “philosophy of branded news.” As Ackerman’s website puts it, “Every brand must be its own media company.”To that end, the firm has created video networks for the Chickasaw Nation and the Integris health care system of Oklahoma, though their content is relatively benign. A recent episode of ChickasawTV, for example, featured a visit to an art gallery. Over on NRATV, a host was calling liberalism “a mental disorder.”Beyond NRATV, the N.R.A. backed Ackerman’s performance.“When Ackerman McQueen began working with the N.R.A., the association was little more than a fledgling grass-roots operation,” Andrew Arulanandam, an N.R.A. spokesman, said in a statement.“The N.R.A. is now the most effective advocacy organization of its kind,” he said, adding that the firm had created “a national platform for the N.R.A.” and that it was “an important partner.”During the N.R.A. power struggle in the 1990s, a board member filed a complaint with the Federal Election Commission, claiming that an N.R.A. contract with an Ackerman subsidiary “was done without any ‘request for proposals’; any bidding process; and no competitive bidding.”The commission decided in a 6-0 vote not to take action, but criticisms have persisted.“The N.R.A. is willing to play fast and loose with tax regulations,” said Marcus S. Owens, a partner at Loeb & Loeb who served for a decade as director of the Exempt Organizations Division of the Internal Revenue Service.Ms. James, the New York attorney general, presents a new threat. Last year, she told Ebony magazine that the N.R.A. held itself “out as a charitable organization” but was actually “a terrorist organization.”William A. Brewer III, the N.R.A.’s outside counsel, said Ms. James had given no indication when she was a candidate that “the N.R.A. had done anything improper,” adding that she had instead promised “a taxpayer-funded fishing expedition.”A number of  transactions could draw scrutiny. Since 2010, the N.R.A. has paid $18 million to a company that produces “Under Wild Skies,” a hunting show on NRATV. Tyler Schropp, the N.R.A.’s advancement director, came to the organization in 2010 from Ackerman, and had a stake in the production company until at least 2017, but “no longer holds any interest,” Mr. Brewer said.Federal rules restrict transactions that confer economic benefits on key executives of tax-exempt organizations.Mr. Brewer described Mr. Schropp’s stake as “a minuscule interest” that the N.R.A. found not to be objectionable. Payments related to “Under Wild Skies” emerged only recently in N.R.A. tax filings.Other issues unrelated to Ackerman could also surface. The N.R.A. has transferred more than $100 million since 2012 from an affiliated charity that also lent the N.R.A. $5 million in 2017. Donations to the charity, the N.R.A. Foundation, are tax-deductible, while those to the N.R.A. are not.“If you’re doing a program that’s charitable, you run it through the charity,” said David G. Samuels, a partner at Duval & Stachenfeld who served in the charities bureau of the New York Attorney General’s Office, which oversees tax-exempt organizations. Such practices raise “red flags,” he said.Like some nonprofits, the N.R.A. has been lucrative for its top executives. Mr. LaPierre’s compensation rose from less than $200,000 in the mid-1990s to nearly $1.5 million in 2017. It spiked to more than $5 million in 2015, largely because of a retirement plan payout.A review of public records found that the N.R.A., which has about 550 employees, has disclosed that 41 employees, contractors, vendors or consultants have relevant family relationships to others connected to the organization, including a “niece-in-law” of Mr. LaPierre who was hired as a consultant.“The N.R.A. strives to comply with all applicable regulations,” Mr. Brewer said, adding that the organization has a “conflict-of interest-policy” and that “vendor agreements are reviewed and approved” by the board’s audit committee when appropriate.With New York regulators circling, it’s no surprise that the state’s politicians have become fodder for NRATV — particularly the governor, Andrew M. Cuomo, whose administration is already engaged in a legal fight with the gun group. Recently, the site even targeted Albany, describing it as “Graft City.”Whatever happens to NRATV, few expect the N.R.A. to become much less combative. Mr. LaPierre, in a speech this month, described the organization’s approach as “full-contact advocacy,” adding, “We are going to fight back against anyone who attempts to silence us.”An earlier version of this article referred imprecisely to Dan Bongino’s separation from NRATV. While he left the video streaming service amid a round of layoffs, it is unclear whether his job was among those eliminated.Susan C. Beachy and Jack Begg contributed research.AdvertisementtranscriptHosted by Michael Barbaro, produced by Clare Toeniskoetter and Alexandra Leigh Young, and edited by Lisa Tobin“It’s hard to differentiate what’s from the shooting and what’s from regular teenage anxiety.” Four students who survived the massacre at their high school told us how it had changed them.Thursday, February 14th, 2019michael barbaroFrom The New York Times, I’m Michael Barbaro. This is “The Daily.” Today: It’s been one year since the shooting at Marjory Stoneman Douglas High School in Parkland. “Daily” producer Clare Toeniskoetter went to Florida this week to check in on some of the students we met last year. It’s Thursday, February 14.clare toeniskoetterLast year, a few weeks after the Marjory Stoneman Douglas High School shooting, my colleague Jack Healy went down to Parkland and interviewed a group of freshman girls who were in the first classroom that the shooter went into, classroom 1216.studentI’ve thought about this, about being in a school shooting. And the one thing that I’ve always said that I would do is text my mom, “I love you,” and, like, “Thank you for everything.” And I was so mad at everything that I wasn’t going to be able to get to do that, and I was going to die and not let my mom know that I loved her.clare toeniskoetterAnd in that classroom, these girls saw eight of their classmates get shot.studentAnd then I just hear a few shots happen over here. And then I see Alyssa, and she’s just standing like this. And then she, like, falls back.clare toeniskoetterAnd three of them were killed. So Jack interviewed the girls, but I was the producer working on “The Daily” episode. And over the past year, I just haven’t stopped thinking about them. I’ve thought about them each time there’s been another mass shooting. I’ve thought about them on election night. And I thought about them just pretty much every time I’ve seen a group of teenagers. So as we approach the one-year anniversary of the shooting, I wanted to check back in with them.flight attendantPlease take a moment to locate the zone on your boarding pass.clare toeniskoetterSo I flew down to Florida, got the group back together at one of their houses. They grabbed a few snacks. And they all settled in on a couch.clare toeniskoetter (to the students)Tell me who you each are.jadeI’m Jade.clare toeniskoetterJade. And Jade, how old are you?jadeUh, 15.maddieI’m Maddie and I’m 15.clare toeniskoetterMaddie.brookeI’m Brooke and I’m 15.clare toeniskoetterBrooke.edenEden and I’m 15.clare toeniskoetterAnd Eden.clare toeniskoetter (to the students)And you’re about to turn 16?edenYep.clare toeniskoetterAnd they immediately just started talking about the last time they were all here together in the same room.edenI feel like it’s like after you see somebody in a movie, and it’s during something, and then you know when they have the 10 years later, and they cut their hair, and they — I feel like that now.jadeI mean, I did change my hair. [LAUGHTER]edenI feel like a different person than who I was when I was last sitting here.clare toeniskoetterWhat do you think you felt like then? What do you feel like now?edenI feel like now, I don’t know, in a way I feel burnt out a little, just like — I feel like I’ve been through hell. Like hell.maddieThis year has been exhausting.edenAnd at that moment, I feel like I was so innocent.clare toeniskoetterWhat were those first weeks back like? So it was about halfway through the school year. And what was a typical day like? Did it feel like normal school at all?brookeNo. Being together was the only good part about that.edenIt was weird. Because the setting was different. And then it was just that feeling in the room.jadeThat emptiness.edenIt’s like, oh my God, the kid who sat there died.clare toeniskoetterWas there ever a day when it felt normal, ever, like in your whole last school year?brookeIt kind of never feels normal. We have a new normal, I feel like. My normal is seeing the 1200 building every day and having flashbacks and then moving on.jadeOr like, oh, that happened.brookeExactly.edenAfter three months, I would say, is when it wasn’t all we thought about all the time. Like that wasn’t the feeling I had.jadeLike, summer was a good —maddieSummer was a good time.clare toeniskoetterYeah?maddieYeah, I’m not going to lie.jadeSummer was like, I was at my happiest.maddieWe were finally away from the building every day.clare toeniskoetterI wasn’t sure if summer would feel good or bad, being — because then you don’t have that built-in support group. But were you — did you stay with other Douglas students enough during your summers?brookeAll of our friends and stuff like that completely understand. At least for me, I talk about it with them all the time. And I for sure feel like I can trust them more than I can a therapist. Because they understand me and they know me. So it’s a lot more personal.clare toeniskoetterSo your friends who were also in school.jadeYeah, exactly.edenI don’t talk about it with anyone. Like, no one. I just can’t.clare toeniskoetterNot even friends?edenNot even my closest friend. It’s really hard for me to talk about it, because my closest friends, most of them weren’t in the building. And it’s just like, what is it going to help me to talk about it? They’re going to feel bad for me, and then what?clare toeniskoetterHow’s it feel right now?brookeI think it’s different when there’s someone in the building. Because all of my friends that weren’t, they feel like they can’t even talk to me about their day, because they don’t want to make me feel bad that they’re talking about it — which, like, that sucks, because I want my friends to be able to talk to me about it. Like, I have no problem with people who weren’t in the building talking. Just don’t act like where I was and where you were is the same thing. That’s my only thing.edenDon’t even try to compare it. It’s just like, it’s different.maddieIt’s different. It’s very, very different.brookeIt’s completely different.clare toeniskoetterShifting into the new school year, how did it feel coming back?maddieI hated it.edenIt was awful.clare toeniskoetterYeah?jadeIt was just like, oh, like, oh.brookeWe’re back here?clare toeniskoetterSo one of the things, from my understanding about going back to school last year, is everyone who was at the school was there on the day of the shooting. But then when you came back to school this year, for this new school year, there’s now a new class. There are freshmen who weren’t there. What is that like?maddieNot good.clare toeniskoetterWhy?brookeThe thing is, some of them are actually very nice and very understanding and accept the fact that they don’t know anything about it and they’re not going to ask, because they know it’s disrespectful. And then the other half are just —maddieWish that they were there.brookeJust wish they were there and are trying so hard to get attention from it, in any way possible.maddieThey post pictures of the building. [INTERPOSING VOICES] Like, you’ve never even —edenHave photoshoots.brookeAnd they think it’s funny.maddieYou’ve never even been in the building. How are you going to post a picture of it?jadeUnless their sibling was at open house, I don’t know.brookeBut they think it’s funny. And they’re dropping textbooks, popping things.maddieOh, my god.brookeLike, someone that has serious PTSD could be right next to you.clare toeniskoetterWait, so they are walking through the halls and making loud noises, dropping textbooks. [INTERPOSING VOICES]brookeThey do it in their classes all the time, for fun.jadeI was taking a math test — it’s a thing.clare toeniskoetterThat’s so cruel.maddieOne of them, after the pep rally, I was walking back to class to portables, and we were right in front of the freshman building. And one of them popped a water bottle right in back of me. Right in front of the freshman building.clare toeniskoetterSo it’s more than just one nasty kid. It’s a lot of them.maddieThey just don’t have — they’re not considerate. They don’t know what they’re doing.brookeThey don’t give empathy to the situation.maddieThey don’t think about it.brookeExactly. And it might be because they don’t really understand. But if you don’t understand, then just don’t do anything. Don’t try to be funny, because it’s not funny.clare toeniskoetterYeah. It’s so — hearing you as sophomores talk about the freshmen, like, there’s this dynamic in any high school experience of feeling like, now I’m older and I hate those freshmen. But of course, it’s completely different for you.brooke— this whole separation, this whole divide.edenThere’s a line.maddieI have no issue with them on any other problem, except for the shooting.brookeAnything else, I don’t even really care.clare toeniskoetterYeah. What do you think is the ideal? What, if you were a freshman this year, what do you think would be the best way?edenJust don’t talk about it.studentJust be respectful.brookeDon’t act like you know anything about it. Because you don’t. [INTERPOSING VOICES]edenDon’t bring it up. Ever.maddieDon’t talk about it like you know what we went through.brookeThey don’t know anything.maddieBecause I know that you were scared and you didn’t know what was going on.clare toeniskoetterBecause a lot of them were next door in the middle school and got evacuated. But they weren’t —edenIt was different.jadeIt was really scary for them. But for us, it’s terrifying.brookeIt’s just different.clare toeniskoetterYeah.brookeI heard it right in my ear, in the hallways. So don’t act like it’s the same.clare toeniskoetterDoes all of this, does it make you feel older?edenI feel like I’m, like, a 90-year-old woman.brookeI feel like we didn’t really — we kind of fast-tracked. [INTERPOSING VOICES]maddieYeah, telling stories about her life.jadeAnd I feel really bad for —brookeI feel bad celebrating my birthday sometimes.edenI feel bad getting my license. I feel bad —brookeWhen they can’t —clare toeniskoetterMilestones. Every milestone feels —edenIt’s really hard.brookeI just feel so guilty.jadeJust getting up every day. Sometimes.brookeLike, they’re supposed to be here. Like, that whole thing wasn’t supposed to happen.maddieYou gotta talk about it.brookeI kinda feel like our childhood got ruined.jadeIt did, yeah.brookeI feel like it’s not there anymore.maddieLike, our high school, everybody says high school is the best time of your life, along with college. But we don’t get that.edenBut it’s not because it’s consuming our lives.maddieYeah. It’s never going to be like that anymore. It’s never going to be like, oh, it’s high school.brookeLike, no cares in the world.edenWhen your parents are like, oh, when I was in high school, this. It’s like, when I was in high school, all I can think about would be the shooting.jadeYeah.edenIt’s hard to differentiate what’s from the shooting and what’s from regular teenage anxiety. Because everybody has anxiety. Everybody. So for me, it’s like, I’ll get those times where I’ll feel like there’s literally — I’m just like, I can’t, I can’t. And I don’t know if it’s from the shooting, and I don’t know what it’s from.brookeIt’s a combination of things, not just [INAUDIBLE] the shooting.edenThat sets the basis for it.maddieSometimes the stress of the shooting has a big impact on regular teenage stresses. So it’ll make your normal teenage stresses more stressful.edenEven more dramatic.clare toeniskoetterBecause you guys are all 15, about to turn 16. So what’s going on in your lives outside of this? You’re about to get driver’s licenses.jadeYeah, exactly.maddieSchool.clare toeniskoetterDating.maddieI mean, right now in life we’re worried about next year. Next year’s going to be our junior year, which is, like, the most important year.clare toeniskoetterCollege.jadeDefinitely, I’m thinking about that the most.maddieStarting to think about colleges, which is scary, but —edenSo scary.maddieSo scary.brookeAnd I’m really scared to apply to colleges, because I don’t want to be accepted just because I’m a Douglas kid. Like, I don’t want that to be the reason why —edenI don’t want that to be my —brookeI get above someone else.eden— the definition of who I am.brookeExactly. I don’t want to look good to your college just because I was in the shooting.edenI just feel like time’s going by so fast.jadeIt really is. I can’t believe it’s almost been a year.edenIt’s crazy.jadeAnd that’s what I’m scared of.brookeI feel like it was, like, yesterday.edenThat, to me, is crazy.jadeLike, I relive it every day, for me at least.maddieI think because we’ve just been living in it this whole year, it just hasn’t gone away. It’s not something that —jadeLike, it surrounds. When I look back on the person I was exactly a year ago from today, she would have not acted like this at all. She would have been a completely different person.clare toeniskoetterYou think you were fundamentally changed?jadeYeah, definitely.brookeYeah. I think everyone is. I don’t think anyone can mentally be the same after what we went through.edenIt’s a part of you.brookeExactly.jadeSometimes I’ll think about when I’m 20, I’ll think about, like, oh, that happened — what would that be? Seven years ago. Like, that’s scary.maddieYeah. I think about when —jadeIt’s been that long.maddie— we have kids, how are we going to send our kids to school?brookeIt’s so hard for me to want to have kids in a place like this.maddieHow are we going to have kids and send them to school like that?brookeI’ve wanted kids my whole life. But I don’t know if I want them anymore.edenIf my kid will have to go through what I went through, I’d just feel so bad.brookeIt makes me not want to have kids. And I’ve wanted kids my whole life.maddieObviously, in the very, very, very far future.brookeNo, yeah. Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah.maddieWe’re talking about kids in the way future.edenActually, six more months. [LAUGHTER] [MUSIC]maddieI always say this. I always say this. Everybody who goes through mass shootings don’t go to the site of the mass shooting every single day and see the building where it happened every single day. We do.brookeA part of me kind of wants to go in.maddieI want to go in so bad.edenI want to go in so bad. I still do.maddieI think we all agreed in 1216 —brookeIt would give us nice closure.maddie— that we want to go in. [INTERPOSING VOICES]edenLast year, we were saying we all — I still want to go in.jadeAt the same time, I don’t want to see that.brookeLike, I want to —maddieI just want to see how they left it.jadeYeah, that’s what I want to see. I want to grab my English binder. [LAUGHTER]edenThere’s just something so curious about how we went there every single day. I was in that building every single day.brookeI had, like, four classes in there.jadeI had two.edenIt’s so weird to me.clare toeniskoetterWhat do you think you would do if you could go in?jadeOh, I’d go in, just walk.maddieI would just walk. [INTERPOSING VOICES]clare toeniskoetterTogether?jadeThe first thing I’d do is go in our classroom.maddieI’ve had dreams about —edenMe, too.jadeI don’t want to see the blood stains.brookeI have it kind of engraved of a thought with just, like, Valentine’s stuff everywhere.maddieOr backpacks. Well, I guess we’re going to see it. We’re going to see it when the trial happens.clare toeniskoetterYou’ll be able to go in?maddieNo, we’re not going to be able to go in. But we’ll see pictures.clare toeniskoetterYou’ll see photos.brookeI still want to see it for myself.maddieI know. [INTERPOSING VOICES]brookeHas anyone had time travel dreams or anything like that?maddieWe sound like literal psychopaths right now. We sound like psychopaths.jadeWe sound insane.clare toeniskoetterTime travel dream?brookeBecause I — it’s a recurring nightmare dream I have. I don’t really have anything about going forward. But I always have this dream where I’m able to go back to that date, and I try to warn people. And I try to warn Alaina, because she was my closest friend in that class. And she won’t listen to me. No one will listen to me.edenI had that, too. And I remember I had a dream, and I showed Alyssa my tattoo, because I have a tattoo.clare toeniskoetterWhat’s your tattoo of?edenIt has the room number on it.clare toeniskoetterDo you all have them?brookeNo.edenAnd I remember I was, in my dream, I was showing her. I was showing her in my dream. And she was, like —maddieThree hearts for them?edenNot believing me. And I was like, look, I’m telling you, there was a shooting. Don’t go to class. And she went anyways.jadeI would have just, like, kidnapped her at the front, like, you’re coming with me.edenI didn’t know you got a tattoo.clare toeniskoetterCan you tell me what they both are?maddieYeah. So mine is, the top is the date in Roman numerals, 2-14-18. The second layer is the three hearts for Alex, Alyssa and Alaina. And the third layer is 1216, which is our classroom number.clare toeniskoetterAnd what’s yours?edenAnd then mine is, like, a flower, which is kind of, if you see, there’s leaves on it. And that represents the growth from what happened. And then there’s the room number, 1216, and then there’s three little flower petals things, for Alaina, Alex and Alyssa.maddieMakes me feel close to them. I love that.edenI like it. But some days, I’m like, I wish I didn’t have to get this tattoo. Like, I hate how it’s part of, it’s permanent. And so is the shooting. It’s permanent on you. [INTERPOSING VOICES]brookeThe thing is, I’m always going to think of it, and I want that there.maddieYeah, I think the significance of getting something permanent on you is that just like the tattoo, the shooting is going to be with you for the rest of your life.brookeFor the rest of your life. [MUSIC]edenFor, like, three months after the shooting, I would always be searching up videos of the shooting and watching them over and over.brookeSame, same, same.clare toeniskoetterWhy? [INTERPOSING VOICES]edenBecause I needed, I needed that closure. I needed to actually see that was real.brookeI think that’s why a lot of us want to go in the room. We just want closure. Because I have no closure on anything.edenAll we have is our memory. And that’s not as reliable, to me, as a picture. [INTERPOSING VOICES]brookeAnd that’s going to fade.clare toeniskoetterDo you think you’ll ever have closure?edenNo.brookeProbably not.edenMaybe.clare toeniskoetterHow could you have?maddieHopefully.edenThe building. The videos.brookeLike, I want to have closure. But I don’t know if it’s attainable.edenI think after the actual videos of it happening, I would love to see that.jadeI started —clare toeniskoetterAnd that exists, in some —edenI think it will.brookeThey exist.edenThey have videos.jadeI’ve seen a picture.maddieThe hallway.jadeBut that’s it.maddieWell, I watch everything that comes out. Everything that comes out, I watch. Every article that comes out about it, I watch. Because I like to know everything that happened. Even though I know, I just don’t — I’d just like to —edenThey don’t have the proof of it.maddieBecause then I don’t look like an idiot telling my story, like, oh, yeah.clare toeniskoetterIt’s validating.maddieYeah. [MUSIC]clare toeniskoetterWhat are you planning on doing this Thursday?maddieCemeteries. More cemeteries. Vigils. I’m going to two cemeteries.jadeAre you going to Alyssa’s?maddieI’m going to — is Alex buried there?edenYeah, they’re right next to — they’re right, literally so close to each other. I went to Alyssa’s, and I saw Max there. And I went to go see, and it was literally right next to it.maddieIs his headstone up?edenYeah.brookeI want to visit Alaina’s, but —maddieI haven’t seen since his.jadeWait, where’s Alaina’s?brookeI don’t know where Alaina’s is.maddieI’m going to Martin’s and I’m going to Luke’s, which are both in the same — [SIGH]clare toeniskoetterAnd you don’t have school on Thursday. Friday is optional?maddieOptional.jadeI mean, both of them is optional.maddieYeah.brookeThey’re both going to be there, but like —clare toeniskoetterYou’re able to go and do service projects. Is that right? Are any of you going to go into school on Thursday?maddieNo. I can’t. I couldn’t even stay for the rest of today.edenYeah, today was hard.maddieI had to leave after third.edenI left early and came late.jadeAre you going tomorrow?maddieNo. I can’t. I physically, like, starting on Monday, I walked into school and I couldn’t.jadeI feel like if I don’t, like, I don’t want to be at home thinking about it.edenYeah. I don’t want to be home by myself.jadeOh, yeah, I know.edenI don’t like that.maddieI’d rather be home than there.brookeThe thing is, I’ve already — I have so much makeup work.jadeI feel like I have to go to school. It’s so bad.brookeI have so much makeup work because I’ve gone early for so many days, because of everything just being too much. And I feel like I can’t miss any more school because the amount of things I have to make up is insane.maddieTomorrow is not going to be an academic day at all.brookeIt is.jadeYeah. I’m learning a lesson in math.brookeI have things planned in bio.jadeAnd I have homework over the weekend. And a test next week in there.brookeSame. [MUSIC]clare toeniskoetterWhat do you think that people get wrong about you? What do you think people should understand about you who were in the classroom?maddieSomething that I’ve always wished that the media knew is that — what we went through, other than the politics. Not everything’s about March for Our Lives. And whereas March for Our Lives is great, and the fact that they can make a change is amazing. But we have stories that are worth being told. And I think that —edenAnd are worth hearing.maddieAnd I think that the media is just so quick to politicize everything, because that’s what makes everything a story. But not everything’s political, and we’re actually going through something that’s real. And really bad.edenAnd it’s happening.maddieYeah, and it happened to us.brookeAnd it happened when we were, like, 14 or 15.edenThat’s what’s so amazing about what the March for Our Lives kids did. But now over time, it’s obviously getting less of a national discussion, less important in our conversations right now.jadeLess vital.edenWhich is upsetting.brookeI feel like another thing, too, is — especially with a bunch of news stations and stuff like that — because I feel like a lot of people forget. And I wish people knew that just because the cameras went away and people aren’t writing about it as much does not mean that the issue went away. Like, people are still depressed. People are still having panic attacks and anxiety attacks. And there are still people that can’t go throughout the day without breaking down because of this. And they didn’t just like, poof, when the camera stopped reporting them or their interview ended — nothing stopped.clare toeniskoetterWhat do you hope comes out of someone knowing that, of fully understanding your story of being in the room?maddieFor me, it’s more about memorializing them and remembering them. Because that’s what matters. To me, that’s what matters, is to keep —edenTo make sure their names aren’t forgotten.jadeTo keep them alive.maddieBecause they didn’t deserve to die. And they’re not here to share their stories.brookeBut we can do that for them. And I think that’s the only reason that —jadeIn a non-political way.brooke— exactly — is that we just want their name to be there forever. They didn’t go away. They’re going to be there with us in our memories as long as we live. And we, as the people who survived it, can bring their memory to life to other people and to show them how amazing they were. They didn’t meet them. But we hope that by telling you how smart Alaina was, by telling you how kind Alex was, by telling you how funny Alyssa was, that you can understand.clare toeniskoetterI think you guys have done a wonderful job honoring them.studentsThank you. Thank you all for talking to me. [MUSIC]maddieI want to take a picture of all of us. Like, a mirror selfie.edenOoh, right now?clare toeniskoetterI can take one of you guys, if you want.maddieNo, it’s O.K. It’s better like a mirror.edenFor Snapchat.jadeOr Instagram.brookeO.K., so there’s two options here with mirrors. [INTERPOSING VOICES]Hosted by Michael Barbaro, produced by Clare Toeniskoetter and Alexandra Leigh Young, and edited by Lisa TobinListen and subscribe to our podcast from your mobile device: Via Apple Podcasts | Via RadioPublic | Via StitcherIt’s been a year since the shooting at Marjory Stoneman Douglas High School in Parkland. We went to Florida this week to check in on some of the students we met 12 months ago.On today’s episode:Clare Toeniskoetter, a producer for “The Daily,” spoke with four students who survived the shooting.Background coverage:“I feel broken, I feel defeated. Right now on my mind, it’s not going to be fine.” Three weeks after the shooting, a group of Stoneman Douglas High School students spoke to a Times reporter on “The Daily.” Listen here.In a series of interviews, nine members of the Stoneman Douglas community — students, parents, police, teachers — reflected on the past 12 months. Parkland students became leaders of the movement for gun control and traveled the country registering young people to vote. Here’s a look at the impact they made.Tune in, and tell us what you think. Email us at thedaily@nytimes.com. Follow Michael Barbaro on Twitter: @mikiebarb. And if you’re interested in advertising with “The Daily,” write to us at thedaily-ads@nytimes.com.AdvertisementFollow Us:Get the Upshot in your Inbox

      By MARGOT SANGER-KATZ and 
    
QUOCTRUNG BUI

MARCH 27, 2019

.229mm.45In Boston from 2010 to 2015, there were 221 gun homicides.Research suggests that one change could have lowered that number by 40 percent: smaller bullets.A study last year, published in JAMA Network Open, examined the type of weapon used in every fatal and nonfatal shooting in the city. It found that  —  regardless of the time of day, the number of wounds or the circumstances of the crime —  the size of the bullet affected which gunshot victims lived and which ones died. Effect on homicide rate if all wounds had been from guns with a ...At the center of the debate about gun control lies the question of whether the availability of deadly weapons increases the seriousness of crime. Critics of gun control contend it doesn’t. As the popular bumper sticker argues: “Guns don’t kill people. People kill people.” The study set out to test that slogan -- and found it wanting.“The type of weapon matters,” said Philip Cook, an emeritus professor of public policy at Duke University, and one of the study’s co-authors.If all the shooters in Boston had used the types of guns in circulation with the biggest bullets, the homicide rate could have been 43 percent higher, the researchers calculated recently, even with the same people committing exactly the same crimes.Criminal shootings in Boston, 2010-2014Over recent decades, the size of bullets fired by the typical handgun has increased. Changes in design have made it easier to fire big bullets from concealable weapons, and manufacturers have marketed more powerful guns as better tools for self-defense. In the 1970s and 1980s, the guns most commonly used in crime tended to be revolvers or small, inexpensive pistols that fired .22-caliber rounds, so-called for their 0.22-inch diameter.a .22-caliber round2 cm.1 cm.But regulations meant to reduce crimes committed with these cheap, disposable guns, sometimes called “Saturday night specials,” pushed them out of gun stores. And advances in gun technology caused a new generation of weapons to hit the market — and eventually the streets. The newer guns, which started to become common in the 1990s, were semi-automatic. They could fire multiple rounds more quickly, and tended to be able to store more bullets in their magazines, meaning they required less reloading in long shootouts.And instead of buying guns that fired smaller bullets, people started purchasing ones that fired rounds that were 9 millimeters wide, about 0.35 inches, then 0.40 and 0.45 inches.a 9mm-caliber round2 cm.1 cm.Guns that fire big bullets used to also be big. But improvements in technology have meant that large-caliber weapons are now available as pistols that can be more easily carried and hidden.These advances, intended for the legal self-defense market, have spread to the criminal one, too. Although data about the guns owned and used by criminals is imperfect, evidence suggests that criminals’ buying preferences are not substantially different from that of the general public. A recent study of guns used by criminal gangs, also in the Boston area, found that gang members paid the most for large-caliber semi-automatic pistols, which they often bought secondhand at prices much higher than those paid by legal purchasers in gun stores. Police seizures of guns in other cities, including Chicago, also show a growing share of large-caliber handguns.a .45-caliber round3 cm.2 cm.1 cm.“In general, the criminals who are using guns in crime do want the higher-caliber, more lethal weapons, and want the newest and sexiest,” said Roseanna Ander, the founding executive director of the Crime Lab at the University of Chicago. “But there is a big markup, and they sometimes can’t get them.”A foundational statistical study in 1972 looked at detailed crime records in Chicago and first documented a relationship between weapon type and outcome. Franklin Zimring, a professor of law at the University of California, Berkeley, said he had been surprised to see so much similarity in the circumstances between fatal and nonfatal shootings. What made the difference, he said, appeared to be some combination of luck, aim and the weapon involved.Mr. Zimring called that paper “The Medium Is the Message,” but said he had been urged to title it “The Bigger the Bullet, the Bigger the Hole.” In the decades since, little has been done to replicate its results. The police don’t always collect information about the caliber involved in shootings. Detailed data about all the particulars of nonfatal shootings is particularly rare.But when Anthony Braga, the director of the school of criminology and criminal justice at Northeastern University, and Mr. Cook learned that Boston’s Police Department was collecting information about caliber as part of an effort to improve its homicide clearance rate, they decided to retest that earlier thesis. It took five years of shootings for the researchers to collect enough data to draw firm conclusions.Bigger rounds can have their drawbacks for shooters, particularly when loaded into compact handguns. Because the bigger ammunition tends to fire with more explosive power, the .40- and .45-caliber handguns that some Boston criminals were using can have strong recoil that can make them hard to handle or to aim subsequent shots. The trade-off between caliber and aim is, in part, why the F.B.I. and many police departments carry 9-millimeter guns rather than larger alternatives. But accuracy seemed a less important consideration for the Boston criminals in the data the researchers examined. Unlike police shootings, most of the shootings in the sample involved a single bullet wound.“Their aim is terrible, fortunately,” Mr. Cook said. “A lot of these cases are drive-bys or cases where you just wouldn’t expect that there’s any sharpshooting going on.”If people are determined to kill someone, will they find a way? Critics of the study’s conclusion contend that the choice of gun itself can be an expression of a criminal’s intent.“As far as I know, everyone in the field believes bigger-caliber handguns are more lethal than smaller-caliber handguns — it's a nonissue," said Gary Kleck, a professor emeritus of criminology at Florida State University, in an email. But he said the study failed to take into consideration that a larger gun might signal a more determined killer. "The authors' implied claim that lethality of the shooter's intent has no effect on victim death is bizarre."There are no serious current proposals to regulate or limit the sale of handguns by caliber size. A recent anonymous survey of gun researchers by the nonpartisan RAND Corporation found that the field remains divided on the question of how much weapons matter in crimeIt’s true that the era of larger-caliber handguns has also been an era of declining violent crime. Homicides in most major American cities peaked in the early 1990s, just before larger-caliber pistols became common. The homicide rate has fallen nearly by half since then. But the research about weapon caliber suggests it could have dropped by even more.AdvertisementSupported byBy Tiffany HsuDick’s Sporting Goods, one of the largest firearms retailers in the United States, is moving further away from selling guns, even as the shift takes a toll on its earnings.On Tuesday, Dick’s said that it would strip firearms and other hunting products from 125 of its stores and replace the merchandise with batting cages, ski apparel and other sports gear. If the switch is successful, as it was at 10 stores where it was tested starting in the fall, it will be expanded, the company said.The latest move to scale back gun sales is becoming a familiar one for the company and its chief executive, Edward Stack.Last year, after 17 people were killed in a shooting in Parkland, Fla., Mr. Stack learned that the suspect, Nikolas Cruz, once bought a gun from Dick’s. That firearm was not used in the attack, but Mr. Stack realized it could have been.Shaken by the link, Mr. Stack, a longtime gun owner, introduced measures that made it harder to buy firearms at Dick’s stores, and he pressed Congress to adopt gun-safety measures. He aligned himself with gun-control activists; was shunned by gun sellers, buyers and firearms industry employees; and became one of the most cited names in a gun debate increasingly crowded with corporate voices.He appeared at conferences with Laurence D. Fink, the chief executive of BlackRock; Mark Bertolini, a former chief executive of Aetna; and other executives with strong opinions on gun control. In the process, Mr. Stack became a model for business leaders wading into contentious social issues.But  his outspoken approach may have put pressure on his company, which sells much more than guns. In announcing its earnings on Tuesday, Dick’s said adjusted same-store sales fell 3.1 percent in the 12 months that ended Feb. 2 from the comparable period a year earlier.In the fourth quarter, which included the holiday shopping season, adjusted same-store sales were down 2.2 percent. Net income for the quarter fell to $102.6 million, or $1.07 a share, from $116 million, or $1.11 a share in the year-earlier period.Public reaction to the policies Dick’s introduced after the Parkland shooting was a “meaningful driver” in the declines, Mr. Stack said in a conference call with analysts on Tuesday. Intensifying competition from Amazon was another, analysts said.The company, which is based in the Pittsburgh area, said it expected its sales for this year to range from flat to a 2 percent increase.In trading on Tuesday, Dick’s shares fell 11 percent from the previous close. But the stock, adjusted for dividends, is up more than 10 percent since Mr. Stack decided to remove AR-15-style and other semiautomatic rifles from the company’s Field & Stream stores soon after the Parkland shooting. Stores operating under the Dick’s logo had already stopped selling such weapons after the 2012 shooting at Sandy Hook Elementary School in Newtown, Conn., in which 26 people, including 20 children, were killed.Both chains stopped selling guns and ammunition to customers younger than 21 last year. The company includes 729 Dick’s Stores, 94 Golf Galaxy stores and 35 Field & Stream stores.Mr. Stack, whose father started Dick’s in 1948, said in a recent interview that the company had “been in the gun business basically since inception.” Gun demand broadly, he said, is “under pressure” and is “going to continue to be under pressure.”Firearm sales, according to an estimate from the Small Arms Analytics & Forecasting research firm, slumped 12.4 percent in February from a year earlier, to 1.1 million units.The drop “certainly appears to validate the ongoing challenging market conditions,” James Debney, the chief executive of American Outdoor Brands, said this month. The company, which owns the Smith & Wesson firearms brand, announced a $5.7 million loss in its third quarter, causing its stock to plunge.Interest in hunting has been on a steady decline in the United States for decades. Mr. Stack said in the interview that the hunting category had “deteriorated” for Dick’s in recent years.In the 10 stores where hunting products were not selling well and were replaced with other merchandise, sales improved during the test, Mr. Stack said on the call on Tuesday. If the expanded trial “goes as well as expected, we’d probably take another batch of stores next year,” he said.Mr. Stack said the shift was meant to make Dick’s stores more “productive.” But Camilla Yanushevsky, an analyst with the research firm CFRA, said that phasing out hunting products was “largely a sign of solidarity with Parkland victims, as well as a form of social activism.”The Parkland shooting inspired other companies to embrace gun safety activism.Delta Air Lines, MetLife and  others cut ties with the National Rifle Association after the attack. Citigroup and Bank of America placed restrictions on gun industry clients. In November, a group of pension funds and other investors circulated a list of guidelines for gun companies with the goal of improving transparency and safety.“It is up to the private sector to continue this conversation,” Mr. Stack said in the interview, “however slowly it moves.”But gun rights advocates have resisted corporate involvement in their cause.Months ago, American Outdoor Brands shareholders unexpectedly won a vote that asked the company to address the risks associated with its products and gun violence. Last month, the company wrote in response that its “reputation as a strong defender of the Second Amendment is not worth risking for a vague goal of improving the company’s reputation among noncustomers or special interest groups with an anti-Second Amendment agenda.”Some of Dick’s 45,000 employees felt the same about Mr. Stack’s decision to restrict gun sales, with 62 resigning over the last year, he said. The National Shooting Sports Foundation voted to expel Dick’s from its membership. Manufacturers like O. F. Mossberg & Sons stopped selling to the chain, although Mr. Stack said Dick’s still had access to Mossberg products through distributors.Mr. Stack also said he had received some threats and had increased security measures meant to protect him and the company. But he said he had no plans to curb his gun-safety efforts.He recently signed an open letter supporting universal background-check legislation that last month became the first major gun control measure in decades to pass the House. Along with executives from Levi Strauss and RXR Realty, he became one of the first members of a business council organized by Everytown for Gun Safety, a major gun safety advocacy group. He is looking into smart gun technology now being developed, calling it “helpful from a gun violence standpoint.”“People in the gun business are not terribly happy with us,” he said. “They said we were toxic, which is fine with us; we’re not going to change the way we’re going.”Follow Tiffany Hsu on Twitter: @tiffkhsu.AdvertisementSupported byGood Thursday. (Want this by email? Sign up here.)Guns Down America, a gun-control advocacy group, has graded 15 banks based on their support for the gun industry, Tiffany Hsu of the NYT reports. Most received dismal appraisals.• “Six of the banks, including JPMorgan Chase and Wells Fargo, received failing grades. Citigroup earned the highest one, a B.”• The group used a 100-point scale that weighed factors like “a bank’s loans to and investments in gun makers” and “discounts and deals it offers to N.R.A. members.”• Citi got an 84. JPMorgan got a 48. BB&T, the lowest-ranking bank on the list, got a 20, in part for loans and financing that it arranged for gun makers like Smith & Wesson.• “We’re not interested in shaming banks or running a campaign focused on how evil they are,” Igor Volsky, the group’s executive director, told Ms. Hsu. “Our end goal is to change the way banks make decisions when doing business with the gun industry.”• Ms. Hsu writes that “several banks contacted for comment said that they had not been consulted and that the group had relied on arbitrary metrics.”Carlos Ghosn was arrested for a fourth time today, as prosecutors hit him with new charges of using company funds for personal ends. The former Nissan chairman claims that it’s part of an effort to silence him.This time, he was accused of using a Nissan subsidiary in Oman to send millions of dollars of payments to one of the carmaker’s foreign business partners, which then passed it on to a company Mr. Ghosn controlled.Mr. Ghosn did this three times between 2015 and 2018, resulting in $5 million in losses to Nissan, according to prosecutors.He may be held in solitary confinement for at least 20 days, the FT reports, citing unnamed people close to his family. It adds that it is highly unusual in the Japanese legal system for someone released on bail to be rearrested.Mr. Ghosn blamed “some individuals at Nissan” for his “outrageous and arbitrary arrest,” saying they were attempting “to silence me by misleading the prosecutors.” He had tweeted yesterday that he planned to hold a news conference next Thursday to tell “the truth about what’s going on.”That tweet and arrest raise an interesting question: Did he violate the terms of his bail, which restrict his internet access?Cybersecurity researchers have found data about hundreds of millions of Facebook users stored publicly by a third party on Amazon’s cloud servers, according to Bloomberg.• “In one instance, Mexico City-based digital platform Cultura Colectiva openly stored 540 million records on Facebook users, including identification numbers, comments, reactions and account names. The records were accessible and downloadable for anyone who could find them online.”• “In the Cultura Colectiva dataset, which totaled 146 gigabytes, it was difficult for researchers to know how many unique Facebook users were affected.”• The researchers also “ had trouble working to get the database closed.”• “A Facebook spokesperson said that the company’s policies prohibit storing Facebook information in a public database. Once it was alerted to the issue, Facebook worked with Amazon to take down the databases.”It has been over a year since the Cambridge Analytica scandal showed how widely Facebook had shared user data with third-party app developers. The social network began to audit that data-sharing last year, but the research report shows the struggle the company still faces.More: Facebook is paying the British newspaper The Telegraph to publish sponsored articles that play down concerns about its practices. New research suggests that its algorithms target ads by race and gender even when advertisers request a broad audience. And have Mark Zuckerberg’s tech regulation proposals been treated unfairly?President Trump is expected to meet China’s trade envoy, Liu He, in Washington later today. That could be a sign of progress on some of the sticking points surrounding a potential deal, according to Bob Davis of the WSJ.The U.S. and China have been at odds over tariffs imposed on $250 billion of Chinese goods. Washington sees them as a way to ensure that China sticks to the deal; Beijing wants them removed as soon as it’s signed. China has few other hard demands, and U.S. businesses have urged the Trump administration to remove the tariffs.There could be workarounds. The U.S. trade representative, Robert Lighthizer, has “been using the tariff issue to push for another U.S. priority — that China agree to a no-retaliation clause in a trade deal,” Mr. Davis reports. The plan, which could let the U.S. unilaterally impose levies on Chinese goods if China does not comply, could “help him persuade Mr. Trump to approve the agreement and lift a substantial amount of tariffs.”“Mr. Trump is looking to announce on Thursday the date of a summit with Mr. Xi,” an unnamed Trump administration official told Mr. Davis. “That’s a big signal the two sides are on the cusp of a deal, trade experts say, and a resolution of the tariff issue.”But “the situation is fluid, and plans could change,” the official added.Senator Ron Wyden, the top Democrat on the Senate’s tax-writing committee, has an idea that could radically change how America taxes the 1 percent, according to the WSJ.Mr. Wyden proposed taxing gains in asset values annually, at the same rate as other income. Gains are currently taxed only when investors sell an asset, and at a top rate of 23.8 percent, rather than the 37 percent for ordinary income.The senator said his plan would “eliminate serious loopholes that allow some to pay a lower rate than wage earners, to delay their taxes indefinitely, and in some cases, to avoid paying tax at all.”Challenges to the plan include how to value gains in complex assets, how to handle declines in value, and how to apply it to illiquid holdings like real estate.The proposal “is a breathtakingly terrible idea,” Sen. Pat Toomey, Republican of Pennsylvania, told the WSJ.President Trump’s aversion to regulation and his go-it-alone nationalism are wavering in the face of technology questions, Steve Lohr of the NYT reports.• “In September, the Trump administration abandoned its hands-off approach and began working closely with the 36-nation Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development to create international guidelines for the design and use of artificial intelligence.”• “The administration has also started to discuss a new law to protect privacy in the digital age, seeking consensus domestically and common ground internationally. It has fielded more than 200 public-comment filings from advocacy groups, corporations and individuals.”The administration has “moved from indifference to engagement,” Julie Brill, a former commissioner at the Federal Trade Commission who now helps oversee regulatory affairs for Microsoft, told Mr. Lohr.“The shift is a pragmatic recognition that regulations that will affect the nation’s tech industry and its citizens are coming, and that if federal officials want a say in them, they must participate,” Mr. Lohr writes.The race to give citizens superfast wireless data networks reached a conclusion yesterday. But there’s no clear consensus on which city is the world’s first to enjoy 5G, the WSJ reports.• “Verizon launched 5G wireless service in parts of Chicago and Minneapolis on Wednesday, a week ahead of its planned start date, while carriers in South Korea deployed their service in the Seoul metropolitan area the same day.”• “It is unclear which country struck first. South Korea’s large carriers, which had eyed a Friday start, hustled to switch on 5G services at 11 p.m. local time. Both SK Telecom Co. and KT Corp., the two largest operators, claimed to have the world’s first 5G smartphone subscribers. Verizon said its customers in those two cities were the first.”The development of 5G has become politically charged. America and China, in particular, see it as a means of asserting technological prowess. And the battle has entangled the Chinese telecom company Huawei, with America and others declaring its 5G hardware a risk to national security.Expect to hear more about the race.Condй Nast has hired Roger Lynch, the former chief executive of Pandora, as its new C.E.O.PG&E confirmed that it has appointed 10 new directors, including Nora Mead Brownell, a former commissioner of the Federal Energy Regulation Commission, and Jeffrey Bleich, a partner at the law firm Dentons.Zeina Bain, one of the Carlyle Group’s most senior female deal makers, has left for a competitor, ICG.Apple promoted its M.&A. chief, Adrian Perica, by having him report directly to Tim Cook instead of the company’s C.F.O.Deals• The radio giant iHeartMedia filed to go public yesterday, though it hasn’t decided between an I.P.O. and a Spotify-like direct share listing. (NYT)• Nearly 20 percent of Lyft’s shares have been lent to short-sellers as part of bets they’ll fall in price. It’s now the most expensive American stock to short. (DealBook, Business Insider)• SoftBank is reportedly in talks to raise $15 billion more for its Vision Fund. (Bloomberg)• The consulting firm Accenture agreed to buy Droga5, one of the big independent advertising agencies. (NYT)Politics and policy• The arrest of a Chinese national carrying malware at Mar-a-Lago shows how hard it is for a presidential home to double as a moneymaking business. (WaPo)• The chairman of the House Ways and Means Committee formally requested six years of President Trump’s tax returns, while the House Intelligence Committee has asked for documents related to his inauguration. (NYT)• Senate Republicans resorted to the “nuclear option” of limiting debate on presidential nominations for federal courts and administrative posts to speed up confirmation of Mr. Trump’s picks. (NYT)• Some of Robert Mueller’s investigators have told associates that Attorney General William Barr’s summary of their findings underplayed troubling conclusions about President Trump. (NYT)Boeing• Ethiopian investigators said that the pilots of the Ethiopian Airlines flight that crashed followed proper guidance. (NYT)• Some pilots said that Boeing should have provided more instructions for disabling the anti-stall software suspected in the two crashes. (WSJ)• The family of Ralph Nader’s niece, who was killed in the Ethiopian Airlines crash, plans to sue Boeing. (NYT)• Boeing hasn’t halted 737 Max production despite the global grounding of the Max 8 model. (Bloomberg)Brexit• Prime Minister Theresa May and the opposition leader, Jeremy Corbyn, have begun talks to devise a Brexit deal that could garner cross-party support. (NYT)• Parliament passed a bill to force Mrs. May to seek a further delay to the process and avoid a no-deal Brexit. (FT)Tech• Tesla delivered 63,000 vehicles in the first quarter — fewer than expected and down 31 percent from the fourth quarter of 2018. (NYT)• A.I. experts have called on Amazon to stop selling its facial-recognition technology to law enforcement because it’s biased against women and people of color. (NYT)• Australia passed a law threatening huge fines for social media companies that fail to take down “abhorrent violent material” rapidly. (NYT)• MIT is cutting ties with the Chinese tech giants Huawei and ZTE over security risks. (FT)• Google will now require suppliers to provide their workers with benefits, including parental leave and minimum wages. (Wired)Best of the rest• Has the yield curve predicted the next recession — or are its warnings being overplayed? (FT)• Six women have sued Jones Day, one of the world’s largest law firms, for pregnancy and gender discrimination. (NYT)• A report by BlackRock says that investors underestimate extreme weather risks. (FT)• China’s stimulus plan might be working. (FT)• Much of the U.S. is experiencing a Japan-style decline in working-age residents. (Upshot)AdvertisementSupported byCritic’s PickWhen you purchase a ticket for an independently reviewed play or musical through our site, we earn an affiliate commission.By Alexis Soloski“The Shadow of a Gunman,” Sean O’Casey’s tragicomic 1923 play about gun violence, patriotism and empty rhetoric, has returned to the Irish Repertory Theater, the first production in a season devoted to his work. And like most Irish Rep shows, there’s little interest in reinterrogating the play: This is a revival, not a reinvention.Instead, the director Ciaran O’Reilly aims to show how playable “The Shadow of a Gunman” remains. Its context — the Irish war of independence — won’t be especially familiar to most audiences, but the idea of people fighting and dying for beliefs they may understand only imperfectly isn’t exactly dated.O’Casey, a luminary of the Anglo-Irish renaissance, was a satiro-comic writer with a big-time dark side and an enduring faith in human self-deception. He practiced the kind of realism in which you can smell how filthy the sheets are. Despite the comedy, the Dublin slum-dwellers who populate his plays are fully realized characters, not shabby cartoons, and he had a cocked ear for the absurd poetry of their speech. He also knew how quickly and ruinously a joke might go wrong, how comedy can in an instant turn its face to tragedy.In “The Shadow of a Gunman,” Donal Davoren (James Russell), a would-be poet, and Seumas Shields (Michael Mellamphy), a threadbare peddler with I.R.A. sympathies, share a grungy tenement room. During an ordinary morning, Seumas’s friend Mr. Maguire, an I.R.A. gunman, comes to drop off a bag, and Seumas tells Donal that everyone in the building thinks Donal is a gunman on the run. Donal doesn’t hate the idea, especially when Minnie Powell (Meg Hennessy), the Republican babe a few rooms over, implies that she finds gunmen sexy. “What danger can there be in being the shadow of a gunman,” he wonders to himself. Maybe he should look inside Maguire’s bag.Mr. O’Reilly’s production doesn’t hit any of the themes too hard. If he does locate the brutality in much of the comedy, he treats a grim play lightly. If you’re worried that you may not find gun violence especially funny, just lean back and luxuriate in the language. (The accents may take a minute to suss; you’ll get there.) Besides, the Irish Rep remains one of the most reliable places to enjoy rowdy, all-in character acting, and it’s here in plenty. The Irish Rep’s great clown John Keating, an exuberant string bean with a shock of curly hair, is nearly upstaged by Ed Malone, a younger actor built along the same pleasantly absurd lines and a deft physical comedian. Robert Langdon Lloyd does fine work, too.But when the play takes its uncorrectable skid into tragedy, there’s enough dramatic force to make you feel for the characters, even the ones you laughed at. At nearly 100 years old, O’Casey’s play still packs heat.When you purchase a ticket for an independently reviewed play or musical through our site, we earn an affiliate commission.This information was last updated on March 6, 2019 The Shadow of a GunmanIn repertory through May 25 at the Irish Repertory Theater, Manhattan; 212-727-2737, irishrep.org. Running time: 1 hour and 45 minutes.AdvertisementSupported byBy Daniel VictorA camera mounted to his head, the gunman who livestreamed part of his savage attack on two mosques in Christchurch, New Zealand, on Friday began his video by casually making reference to a current internet meme.He appeared to be steeped in the culture of the extreme-right internet. And in the terrible minutes of video that followed, he proved to be a nonchalant, unrepentant killer.As of Friday night, the gunman had not been identified by the authorities. But just before the attack began, a man who said he was a 28-year-old from Australia published a link on a right-wing forum to a 74-page manifesto, and another link on the same forum to a personal Facebook page with the video that would soon document the slaughter.Based on the video, the manifesto and social media posts, a picture has begun to emerge of a man primarily driven by white nationalism and a desire to drive cultural, political and racial wedges between people across the globe. That, he hoped, would stoke discord and, eventually, more violence between races.It is unclear whether the Facebook user is the man whom the authorities in New Zealand have charged in the shootings that have left at least 49 people dead. They have said only that the suspect is a man in his 20s.Australia’s main public broadcaster reported that the Facebook user worked as a personal trainer at a gym in the city of Grafton after finishing school in 2009 until 2011, when he left to travel overseas. Where exactly his travels took him was not immediately known, but the manifesto’s author wrote that he explored much of Europe in the spring of 2017.And a man using the same name visited the Gilgit-Baltistan administrative territory of Pakistan in October, people at two hotels there confirmed.Asghar Khan, the manager of operations at the Serena Hotel there, said the man seemed like a “nature-loving” traveler. Syed Israr Hussain, owner of the nearby Osho Thang hotel, said he stayed there for two or three days with a group of backpackers.“He was normal and polite during his stay,” Mr. Hussain said. “There was nothing out of the ordinary.”The gunman appeared to pair the shooting with the typical trolling tactics of the internet’s most far-right instigators, playing to a community of like-minded supporters online who cheered him on in real time as they watched bodies pile up. And the manifesto states plainly what usually goes unstated by internet trolls: By design, its author wanted to get everyone upset and arguing with each other.[Follow our live briefing on the Christchurch killings here.]One of the goals of his bloodshed, he wrote, was to “agitate the political enemies of my people into action, to cause them to overextend their own hand and experience the eventual and inevitable backlash as a result.” He said he wanted to “incite violence, retaliation and further divide.”The manifesto, the harrowing video and what appear to be the gunman’s social media posts feature typical white nationalist rhetoric with layers upon layers of irony and meta jokes, making it difficult to parse what is genuine and what he just thought was funny.The gunman seems to have a significant interest in history — at least, the parts that fit into a white nationalist narrative. On his weapons, he wrote the names of centuries-old military leaders who led battles against largely nonwhite forces, along with the names of men who recently carried out mass shootings of Jews and Muslims.The manifesto, steeped in anti-Muslim sentiment, refers to nonwhites as “invaders” who threaten to “replace” white people. The author says he used guns instead of other weapons because he wanted the United States to tear itself apart arguing over gun laws.His choice of language, and the specific memes he referred to, suggest a deep connection to the far-right online community. The link to the livestreamed video was first posted to the /pol/ forum of 8chan, a notorious far-right space, where the gunman was hailed as a hero after the shooting.Some of his references were subtle. As he drove to the mosque, he listened to a song associated with a 1995 Serbian nationalist video, which has recently been co-opted as a racist meme.What might appear to be a bizarre, rambling section of the manifesto was actually a relatively old meme known as Navy Seal Copypasta, a faux rant that is copied and pasted to indicate faux toughness.On 8chan, he uploaded an image titled “screw your optics,” a phrase Robert Bowers, the man accused of fatally shooting 11 people at a Pittsburgh synagogue in October, was said to have used.Other references were more mainstream. “Subscribe to PewDiePie,” the gunman’s call at the beginning of the video, is a recent meme, referring to the YouTube star whose real name is Felix Kjellberg — but the gunman’s use of the phrase should not necessarily be read as an endorsement. (PewDiePie, a polarizing figure with a populist appeal, said on Twitter that he was “absolutely sickened having my name uttered by this person.”)[Read more on PewDiePie, from 2017: what a bizarre career turn indicated about the nascent politics of social platforms.]At times, the manifesto creates dubious associations with cultural figures he knows to be lightning rods for criticism.He wrote that Candace Owens, a black conservative commentator in the United States, was most responsible for radicalizing him, a claim that seemed intended as a joke.He called President Trump “a symbol of renewed white identity and common purpose,” but mocked him as “a policy maker and leader.”He railed against diversity, praising “non diverse nations” like China, which he said most closely shared his political and social values.In a question-and-answer section of the manifesto, he asked himself: Where did he research and develop his beliefs?“The internet, of course,” he wrote. “You will not find the truth anywhere else.”An earlier version of this article misstated the status of the criminal case against the defendant in the shooting of 11 people at a Pittsburgh synagogue last October. The defendant, Robert Bowers, is accused of the crime. He has not been convicted.Nathan Ruser and Meher Ahmad contributed reporting.OpinionCharlie WarzelAdvertisementSupported byBy Reuters(Reuters) - Two people were killed and two critically wounded when a gunman opened fire on two motorists and a Metro bus in Seattle on Wednesday and then caused a collision as he tried to flee in a stolen car during the afternoon rush hour, police said.The incident unfolded in a northeastern Seattle neighborhood when the suspect approached a motorist at an intersection and shot her before walking into the street and firing on the bus, police said in a statement.The bus driver, identified by the Seattle Times newspaper and other media as Eric Stark, 53, was shot but managed to turn the bus around and head away from the assailant, police said. The suspect then approached a second motorist in a Toyota Prius and opened fire, killing the driver.The gunman climbed into the Prius as police arrived and sped away but collided with a nearby vehicle, killing that driver. Officers pursuing the suspect took him into custody after a brief standoff, police said.Authorities did not immediately offer an explanation for what might have precipitated the shooting or specify the type of weapon used."We only believe that this is a one, lone suspect involved in this random, senseless act", said Seattle Deputy Police Chief Marc Garth Green, according to NBC News. "We're outraged at what this suspect did."The unidentified suspect was taken to a Seattle hospital, where he remained under guard while being treated for injuries that were not life-threatening, according to police. Police said one motorist was killed by gunfire and the other motorist was killed in the collision. Both were men. None of the victims was immediately identified by police. The Times reported late on Wednesday that the gunman was a 33-year-old Seattle resident. The man who was fatally shot was 50 and the man who was killed in the collision was 70, it said.King County's Metro transit authority said on Twitter the bus driver had activated an emergency alarm to report being shot, and that none of his 12 passengers was injured.AdvertisementSupported byBy Reuters(Reuters) - Two people were killed and two critically wounded when a gunman opened fire on two motorists and a Metro bus in Seattle on Wednesday and then caused a collision as he tried to flee in a stolen car during the afternoon rush hour, police said.The incident unfolded in a northeastern Seattle neighborhood when the suspect approached a motorist at an intersection and shot her before walking into the street and firing on the bus, police said in a statement.The bus driver was struck but managed to turn the bus around and head away from the assailant, police said. The suspect then approached a second motorist in a Toyota Prius and opened fire, killing the driver.The gunman climbed into the Prius as police arrived and sped away but collided with a nearby vehicle, killing that driver. Officers pursuing the suspect took him into custody following a brief standoff, police said.Authorities did not immediately offer an explanation for what might have precipitated the shooting or specify the type of weapon used.The unidentified suspect was taken to a Seattle hospital, where he remained under guard while being treated for injuries that were not life-threatening, according to police. Police said one motorist was killed by gunfire and the other motorist was killed in the collision. Both were men, as was the wounded bus driver. None of the victims was immediately identified.King County's Metro transit authority said on Twitter the bus driver had activated an emergency alarm to report being hit by gunfire, and that none of his 12 passengers was injured.Although wounded in the torso, the bus driver was able to walk to a gurney to be transported by paramedics to a hospital, the Seattle Times newspaper quoted a transit union president as saying.AdvertisementSupported byBy ReutersSYDNEY — From its clubhouses in Melbourne and Sydney, the Lads Society promotes drug-free living and exercise, as well as "white resistance" and Islamophobia, according to online statements and interviews with two of its leaders.One of Australia's most high profile extremist groups, its members last year infiltrated the youth arm of the National Party, part of the ruling coalition government, before being exposed and ejected due to their far right views.Now, the group has come to prominence again – and to the attention of security agencies – after a gunman shot 50 people dead at two New Zealand mosques.In the hours after the shootings, the Lads Society's private Facebook page lit up as its members discussed the attack and the man arrested and charged with murder, 28-year-old Australian Brenton Tarrant, according to five screenshots of the Facebook messages which were provided by a person with access to the group and reviewed by Reuters."He had been on the scene for a while," said Tom Sewell, founder of the Lads Society, according to the previously undisclosed messages on the Lads Society's Facebook page. "He made heaps on Bitcoin and paid for his own holidays, I spoke to him back in 2017 when he was donating money to everyone," added Sewell. In a later public statement, Sewell said he and Lads Society leaders were interviewed about the Christchurch attacks by the Australia Security Intelligence Organisation (ASIO), the country's domestic spy agency. ASIO said it does not comment on specific individuals, intelligence or operational matters but was alert to the threat from people with "extreme right-wing ideologies". The Australian Federal Police also declined to comment when asked about any ties Tarrant had to the Lads Society.Sewell declined to comment on Tarrant or whether he knew him, and his messages provided no further details.Tarrant, who is now in custody and has said he plans to represent himself, was not available for comment. The Lads Society's page was shut down after Facebook targeted white nationalists in the wake of the Christchurch massacre. Reuters was unable to verify the claims on the since-deleted Facebook page.     However, Sewell's messages to the private group on the Lads Society Facebook page, which carried the same profile photo as a photo posted on Sewell's Instagram account, add to evidence Tarrant was engaged with Australia's far right. On the 8Chan message board minutes before the attack, Tarrant posted links to a livestream video of the attack and said: "You are all top blokes and the best bunch of cobbers a man could ask for." Cobber is Australian slang for friend, and a term popular among Australian white nationalists.As Australia confronts the uncomfortable truth that Tarrant was one of its own, the country has been gripped by acrimonious debate about both its past race policies and whether recent political discourse about immigration and Islam had any role to play in his radicalization.In the space of a few minutes outside a Sydney mosque the day after the Christchurch shootings, Australian Prime Minister Scott Morrison encapsulated the country's contradictory identity."We are a tolerant, multicultural society, the most successful immigration country on the planet," he said, before pivoting to a darker undercurrent. "These white supremacist, white separatist views, are not new. I mean, these sentiments have sadly existed in Australia for hundreds of years."OFF THE RADARTarrant grew up in the small Australian city of Grafton, where he worked as a gym instructor and developed a passion for gaming and computers, according to local media reports citing the gym owner and his grandmother. In a "manifesto" distributed online just before the attack, Tarrant said he formed his racist beliefs on the internet and downplayed his links to Australia, saying he was radicalized abroad. He acted alone, the manifesto said, although he said he had donated to far-right groups from an inheritance and a cryptocurrency windfall. Austrian Chancellor Sebastian Kurz last week confirmed his country's far-right Identitarian Movement had received 1,500 euros ($1,690) from Tarrant.Most of his past nine years was spent traveling across Europe, Asia and the Middle East.Tarrant was "on nobody's radar, anywhere," said Morrison, spending only 45 days in the past three years in Australia. According to the Australian Broadcasting Corporation, citing archives of the deleted Facebook account of the United Patriots Front (UPF), another Australian far-right group, Tarrant described one of that group's leaders, Blair Cottrell, as "Emperor". Reuters was unable to independently verify that detail.Cottrell - a muscle-bound, blond-haired carpenter - founded the UPF alongside Sewell. Sewell later started Lads Society in 2017, with Cottrell's promotional support. Cottrell, described by sources as the movement's main figurehead in Australia, still heads UPF and appears in Lads Society photos and videos but holds no formal position in that group. Cottrell told Reuters that, as best he could tell, Tarrant had donated only once to groups he was associated with - A$50 to the UPF. "I don't believe I influenced Tarrant much at all. Maybe three years ago, he was in support of our specific opposition to that mosque development in Bendigo."In 2017, Cottrell and two other UPF members were found guilty of inciting contempt of Muslims after they filmed a mock beheading outside council offices to protest a mosque development in the small Victorian city.GOING MAINSTREAMWhite extremists gained momentum in 2014 after an Islamist gunman took a group of hostages in a Sydney cafe, analysts and members of the movement say. The following year, thousands of people attended rallies arranged by anti-Islam group Reclaim Australia, and some far-right politicians spoke at the events.Suspicions about the presence of Lads Society members in the youth wing of the National Party first emerged after officials of the rural-based party noted an influx of new members from cities. After ties to the Lads Society were revealed in local media, the National Party expelled 19 people, saying in a statement in November it "would not rest until every last one of these extremists have been identified and removed." In Australia's latest census, about 90 percent nominated their ancestry as Australian or European, while 2.5 percent were recorded as Muslims.Just under a quarter of Australians have a "negative attitude" to Muslims, according to a 2018 report from the Scanlon Foundation, a group that tracks social cohesion.FAR-RIGHT SENATORIn the wake of the Christchurch attacks, Australia's Islamophobes flooded social media with memes and messages in support of Fraser Anning, the Australian senator who blamed the bloodshed on "an immigration program which allowed Muslim fanatics to migrate to New Zealand".In an interview with Reuters, Anning said he was "completely opposed" to the attacks in Christchurch.However, he echoed the "replacement theory" embraced by Tarrant and the global white supremacist movement. Muslims, he said, "are going to outbreed us very quickly".Anning has picked up 28,600 Facebook followers in the past four weeks, data provided by his office shows, and now has more than 122,000 followers. Sewell and Cottrell in statements and interviews with Reuters and other media, also said they were appalled by the attacks on the mosques. "Politically motivated violence is not in the interest of our organization or our community," Sewell said in his since-deleted Facebook statement on March 20.In his interview with Reuters, Sewell said further that Tarrant's violence had caused governments to become "extremely reactionary", passing legislation "without thinking it through".New Zealand moved swiftly to ban the kinds of semi-automatic weapons used in the attacks. AdvertisementSupported byBy Ali Winston[What you need to know to start the day: Get New York Today in your inbox.]A 15-year-old boy from Haiti was shot and killed in front of his sister by a hooded gunman on Friday night in a horrific scene that rocked his Brooklyn neighborhood and served as a grim reminder of a growing number of murders in New York.The boy, Samuel Joseph, was a sophomore at the High School for Youth and Community Development on the Erasmus Hall campus and one of eight siblings from a family of Haitian immigrants. He was leaving his apartment building on Flatbush Avenue in the Flatbush neighborhood to get something to eat around 5:45 p.m. when he was confronted in the lobby by the gunman.He was shot in the face, head and chest, and died at a nearby hospital, the police said.His murder was the latest in an increasingly violent year in New York City, and Brooklyn in particular. As of Feb. 17, there had been 48 murders in the city this year, up from 31 during the same period in 2018.That increase has been driven mostly by killings in Brooklyn, where there have been at least 15 more murders compared with this point last year.Surveillance video recovered by the police from nearby businesses showed two young men stopping and speaking to one of Samuel’s sisters in front of their building, Assemblywoman Rodneyse Bichotte, a Democrat whose district includes the neighborhood, said on Saturday.“His sister was walking down the street, and you can see these two men have a conversation with her and apparently asked where her brother was,” said Ms. Bichotte, who had spoken to one of Samuel’s sisters and watched the video. “One guy stood outside, and one came inside, did the shooting and left.”No arrests have been made and a motive for the shooting was not immediately clear.“This was planned, but I don’t know if it was the right target,” Ms. Bichotte said.The shooting happened on a busy Friday evening when the neighboring businesses — a barbershop, a tattoo parlor, a package shipping center — were open and full of customers.Fabian Mora, a tattoo artist who works two doors down from Samuel’s building, said that for the past few years Samuel came into his shop and watched people get tattooed. “He used to joke with us, and say, ‘I want to get a tattoo,’ and we would tell him he was too young,” Mr. Mora said.Frank Joseph, who played basketball with Samuel at the Y.M.C.A. gym just steps down the street, crouched in front of a sidewalk memorial of candles and a note-laden poster of his friend. He remembered him as a skilled point guard.“I knew him before he could even speak English,” said Mr. Joseph, who was not related to the victim. “He was a good kid.”A number of youth murders have stunned the city recently, notably the brutal stabbing of Lesandro Guzman-Feliz in the Bronx last summer and the shooting of Oluwadurotimi Joseph Oyebola on a Brownsville basketball court in September.Samuel’s family — he was one of five sons and three daughters — came to the United States about 10 years ago. Relatives were too distraught to speak to reporters on Saturday.“They came here for opportunity, and a young man was gunned down,” Ms. Bichotte, the assemblywoman, said. “You have a family that’s trying to capture the American dream, and then something like this happens.”AdvertisementSupported byBy Julie Bosman and Mitch SmithAURORA, Ill. — A former warehouse employee who had recently lost his job stormed through his old workplace in suburban Chicago on Friday, killing five workers and injuring five police officers.The gunman, whom the authorities identified as Gary Martin, 45, of Aurora, Ill., was killed in an exchange of gunfire with officers.His sister, Tameka Martin, said Mr. Martin had worked at the Henry Pratt Company’s industrial warehouse for about 20 years before he was let go two weeks ago. The police said they believed that Mr. Martin had lost his job even more recently, on Friday.A worker received non-life-threatening injuries in the shooting at the company’s warehouse, where valves and control devices used in water and power systems are designed.Scores of law enforcement authorities swarmed the facility in Aurora, about 40 miles west of downtown Chicago; sections of the city were cordoned off; and schools were forced to keep students inside for more than an hour.By late Friday, officials said they were notifying the families of those who had died, and would not yet release their names.Four hospitals reported treating at least seven people who were hurt. Among the wounded were five Aurora police officers who were shot and a sixth officer who was injured responding to the gunfire inside the warehouse. The officers’ injuries were not believed to be life threatening.The first calls of a shooting at the warehouse began pouring in at 1:24 p.m. local time, Kristen Ziman, Aurora’s police chief, said. The first officers arrived four minutes later, rushing in and immediately being shot at, she said. Two of the first four officers to arrive were shot.Chief Ziman said officers from other departments converged on the site, and teams were assembled to search for the gunman inside the sprawling, 29,000-square-foot building. When they eventually found him, about 90 minutes after the search began, they shot and killed him, she said. The police said he was armed with a handgun.John Probst, an employee who was in the building at the time, told ABC 7 Chicago that he recognized the gunman, a co-worker, “running down the aisle” with a pistol that had a green laser attached to it.He said he saw one person who was shot and “was bleeding pretty bad.” He believed there were others who had been shot in the office. He said he and another co-worker ran out the back door, and he heard more shots once he was outside.Officials from Mueller Water Products, of which the Henry Pratt Company is a subsidiary, issued a statement late Friday expressing shock and sadness.“Our hearts are with the victims and their loved ones, the first responders, the Aurora community and the entire Mueller family during this extremely difficult time,” the statement said. “Our entire focus is on the health and well-being of our colleagues, and we are committed to providing any and all support to them and their families.”The officials did not respond to specific questions, and employees reached by phone on Friday night said they had been told not to comment. The company, founded in 1901, has its headquarters in Aurora, according to its website, and also has manufacturing facilities in Washington State and Indiana.Ms. Martin said she had seen her brother a few days ago at a dinner at her mother’s house, and she described him as “very depressed, very depressed.” She added, “He really didn’t say too much to me.”Mr. Martin’s family members met with officers at the Police Department late Friday; some embraced and wept.The authorities conducted a search of Mr. Martin’s home on Friday night.For hours on Friday afternoon, a chaotic scene played out in Aurora, a city of 200,000 residents, as fire trucks, ambulances and police squad cars jammed the neighborhood of houses and warehouses.Worried parents waited as schools — including one not far from the warehouse — ordered students to shelter in place for more than an hour. Officers searched the blocks around the warehouse. Rescue officials stood by waiting to carry more patients to hospitals. And officials from the coroner’s office were called.“It’s a shame that mass shootings such as this have become commonplace in our country,” Mayor Richard C. Irvin of Aurora said. “It’s a shame that a cold and heartless offender would be so selfish as to think he has a right to take an innocent life.”By evening, political leaders from around the nation began issuing news releases and posting messages on social media offering sympathy and support.The White House said that President Trump had been briefed on the situation and was monitoring it. J. B. Pritzker, the new governor of Illinois, traveled to Aurora and praised the police officers who ran inside during the shooting.“You rushed toward danger, and in doing that you saved countless lives,” Mr. Pritzker said.Rosalee Andrada, 54, lives in a house on Cleveland Avenue, only steps from the building where the shooting took place. She had just taken her daily medication when she heard sharp staccato sounds coming from outside.“I thought it was just ice cracking,” she said.But her husband, Jose, hustled her and their husky, Rocky, into the basement. She said she heard five shots in total.Rocky was anxious and wanted to come upstairs, Ms. Andrada said, so they climbed the basement steps and looked through the kitchen window. Countless police officers had converged on the scene, a cacophony of lights and sirens.She saw three officers helping a wounded colleague, who held his hand to his neck.AdvertisementSupported byBy Serge F. KovaleskiWhen the gunman in the Las Vegas mass shooting died, he left behind a hoard of guns and firearm accessories in his two Nevada homes and the hotel suite he used as a perch for his attack.All told, the gunman, Stephen Paddock, owned 50 guns, from pistols to high-powered long arms, and almost 40 firearm components including scopes, a red dot sight, bi-pods and rifle cases. A special administrator appointed by a state court judge to determine the value of Mr. Paddock’s estate said in a recent report that the guns and equipment were worth about $62,340.Now, the main lawyer involved in passing on Mr. Paddock’s nearly $1.4 million estate to the families of the 58 people he slaughtered at an outdoor country music festival is facing a quandary. Should the firearms be sold to raise as much money as possible for the bereaved, or would it be more appropriate to destroy the guns in an emblematic rejection of the kind of violence that Mr. Paddock carried out?“The money that would come from selling the guns is not a huge amount, but it would help to make a difference in peoples’ lives,” said Alice Denton, the lawyer for the special administrator in the estate case.On the other hand, Ms. Denton added, “Destroying the guns would send more of a symbolic message to the world that weapons like these should not be sold at any price if death or harm to innocent people cannot be prevented.”She said the estate would solicit feedback from the families of those killed and review applicable laws before a decision would be made on how to proceed. In the meantime, the guns and accessories are in the possession of the F.B.I.In an email message, a spokeswoman for the bureau’s Las Vegas field office, Sandra Breault, declined to comment on whether the F.B.I. would return some or all of the weapons to the estate. “This part of the investigation is still ongoing,” she wrote.Mr. Paddock died without a will. Lawyers for the victims encouraged Mr. Paddock’s mother — who, under Nevada law, became the heir by default — to give his assets to the estates of the 58 people killed by her son. The mother, Irene Hudson, transferred her right to inherit the estate in March of last year.In addition to those killed, hundreds of others were injured in the shooting. However, lawyers say the compensation should go to the loved ones of the dead rather than the injured, saying the money would have greater impact on their lives than if the large number of people hurt in the rampage were also beneficiaries.The conundrum over what to do with Mr. Paddock’s firearms underscores the increasingly complex and delicate considerations that have arisen for victims and their relatives as mass shootings have become a more frequent part of American life today.The case also comes as an unparalleled number of gun control laws were passed in states around the country in the 15 months since the Las Vegas shooting on Oct. 1, 2017.Mynda Smith, 43, whose older sister was fatally shot by Mr. Paddock, said she saw no point in destroying the guns he owned.“My initial reaction is that destroying them is not going to change anything and it won’t bring any goodness,” Ms. Smith said. “But if some good can come out of selling them, I am for it.”For Kyle Taylor, 32, whose father died in the massacre, deciding on the best use of Mr. Paddock’s weapons was “a moral dilemma.”“The more money you could raise to help the families is great,” Mr. Taylor said. “But the idea of receiving money from equipment that was used by someone who took so many lives is creepy and unsettling.”In the special administrator’s inventory of the estate, 23 rifles and a revolver were listed as having been found in Mr. Paddock’s room at the Mandalay Bay Resort and Casino. They were given a total value of $41,050.At Mr. Paddock’s home in Mesquite, Nev., $18,439 worth of guns and accessories — seven rifles, seven shotguns and five handguns — were found. And two shotguns and five handguns, with a combined value of just over $2,800, were collected from his Reno house, the inventory report showed.Overall, each of the 58 families would receive about $24,000 once Mr. Paddock’s estate is divided up equally. Included in that figure would be a payout of close to $1,100 per family if the firearms were to be sold.The cache of guns that belonged to Mr. Paddock — who attained significant wealth through high-stakes gambling and modest real estate deals before he lost much of it — is just one piece of his estate. It also includes a pair of houses, both in scenic retirement communities, an investment property and bank accounts.Among the other items in the estate are two gaming vouchers, totaling more than $30,000, from the Mandalay Bay. It was from an upper floor room in the hotel that Mr. Paddock started firing at concertgoers on the Vegas Strip, in what was the worst mass shooting in modern American history. He then took his own life.The inventory of Mr. Paddock’s estate also showed that he had $455,758 in 13 bank and brokerage accounts.The situation with the Paddock weapons is not unprecedented. When the federal government sought to hold an internet auction of personal items belonging to Theodore J. Kaczynski, who was sentenced to life in prison for the Unabomber crimes, several victims pursuing restitution from him were initially reluctant to agree to such a sale.Although the money from the sale of Mr. Kaczynski’s writings, sunglasses, clothing and other possessions would go to them, the victims feared that the auction would bring Mr. Kaczynski more publicity and further expose their suffering. One victim who was not seeking restitution said he hoped that Mr. Kaczynski’s property would be destroyed or sealed for at least a century and then made available to “scholars of depravity.”The auction went ahead in 2011 and raised more than $232,000 for the victims. Mr. Kaczynski carried out 16 mail bombings from 1978 to 1995 that killed three people and injured 28.Though the matter of how best to handle Mr. Paddock’s guns remains unresolved, the estate has made progress in other areas. On Thursday, the judge overseeing the estate case approved the sale of Mr. Paddock’s Mesquite home to an Oregon couple for $425,000.His residence in Reno is still on the market for $374,900, a reduction from the original listing price of $399,000 in July.Bernadette Jones, who, with her husband, Daniel, bought the Mesquite home, said in an interview that the property met their criteria and that they were not spooked by the fact that it had belonged to one of America’s most notorious mass murderers, who stored many of his guns there.“There is room to build a pool, it is a nice clean house that has hardly been lived in and there are nice neighbors who have been through a lot,” Ms. Jones said.She added: “We feel that our discernment is very good, and if we felt that things were not right, we would have walked away. If he had any personal items in there, buying would have been out of the question.”The Joneses, who are in their 60s, had been looking to relocate to the area since the summer of 2017 to escape the dreary weather of Albany, Ore.Ms. Denton, the lawyer, said that the 58 families would not see any money raised by the estate for at least another year to give creditors time to file any claims.Although lawyers for many of the surviving victims have said their clients will not sue the estate, in order to preserve it, Ms. Denton pointed out that “the agreements are not in writing and they can change their minds at any time.”AdvertisementSupported byBy Liam StackA Baptist minister in Texas who came to national attention in 2016 when he praised the gunman who killed 49 people at a gay nightclub in Orlando, Fla., resigned from his ministry last week after allegedly using drugs, gambling and paying for sex with prostitutes.Donnie Romero, who founded the Stedfast Baptist Church in Fort Worth in 2014, told congregants at a church meeting on Jan. 2 that he had not “been ruling my house well.”“I have been a terrible husband and father,” Mr. Romero said, according to video of the meeting that was posted to the church’s official YouTube channel. “This is the best decision — for my family and this church — to make.”Mr. Romero did not elaborate on his alleged impropriety at that meeting, which was largely run by another pastor, Steven L. Anderson. Mr. Anderson told congregants that “the lord says” Mr. Romero was “disqualified” to lead them.Later, in a video he posted to YouTube, Mr. Anderson expanded on what he called the pastor’s “major sins.”“Basically, the major sin involved was being with prostitutes, and then there were also marijuana and gambling that were also discovered,” Mr. Anderson said.He added that no one else at the church had been “tainted with any of this or were involved with any of this.”Mr. Anderson did not specify the gender of the prostitutes or provide a timeline for the infractions. Neither Mr. Anderson, Mr. Romero nor the new pastor of Stedfast Baptist Church, Jonathan Shelley, responded to messages seeking comment on Tuesday.Stedfast Baptist Church is part of a nationwide network of almost 30 independent Baptist churches associated with Mr. Anderson, who founded Faithful Word Baptist Church in Tempe, Ariz.He gained notoriety in 2009 for saying in a sermon that he had prayed for the death of President Barack Obama, and was criticized by the Anti-Defamation League in 2014 for what it called his “history of anti-Semitism.”Both churches are vehemently opposed to homosexuality and have been classified as hate groups by the Southern Poverty Law Center, which tracks extremism in the United States. The website of Faithful Word Baptist Church describes homosexuality as “a sin and an abomination which God punishes with the death penalty.”“This network is not coming out of nowhere, it’s not like it’s one little church in one little place with some guy who liked to go to prostitutes,” said Heidi Beirich, a researcher at the law center. “It’s a network of congregations across the country with this guy who preaches a — I don’t want to call it a theology because it is so hateful, but who preaches that gay people are destroying the country.”Mr. Romero and Mr. Anderson were among a small group of extreme Christian conservatives who were widely criticized in 2016 for praising Omar Mateen, the gunman who killed 49 people that year at Pulse nightclub, a center of gay night life in Orlando. Mr. Mateen said at the time that he was acting in the name of the Islamic State.More than 50 additional people were injured in the attack. In a sermon shortly after the shooting, Mr. Romero said he hoped they would die, too.In the sermon, which was posted to YouTube, Mr. Romero told congregants that gay people were all pedophiles and that he hoped the injured would die of their wounds “so that they don’t get any more opportunity to go out and hurt little children.”“I’ll pray to God that God will finish the job that that man started,” he said, referring to Mr. Mateen. The video of the sermon has since been removed from YouTube.AdvertisementSupported byBy Emily S. RuebAbout three months before Scott P. Beierle shot two women to death, injured five other people and killed himself at Hot Yoga Tallahassee in November 2018, the F.B.I. received a tip about him, the Tallahassee Police Department said Tuesday.In August 2018, Mr. Beierle shared a link to his website “Path of Defiance” with a childhood friend and his wife, who was so disturbed by the content — it included songs about the rape and torture of women — that she shared it with the Federal Bureau of Investigation. But according to police records, the bureau did not have enough information to pursue the lead.The F.B.I. did not immediately respond to a request for comment.The revelation that the bureau had been alerted to Mr. Beierle was among new details released by the Tallahassee Police Department at a news conference on Tuesday afternoon announcing the findings of a three-month investigation. It found that Mr. Beierle had planned the attack for months and had an affinity for pornographic yoga and a documented disdain for the opposite sex.Speaking at a news conference on Tuesday afternoon, Chief Michael DeLeo said that while Mr. Beierle had no known connection to any the seven victims (six were female), he was “a disturbed individual who harbored hatred towards women.”One of the documents recovered from a hotel room where Mr. Beierle had been staying said: “If I can’t find one decent female to live with, I will find many indecent females to die with. If they are intent on denying me life, I will have no choice, but to deny them life. At least I will no longer have to live under the reign of a monkey. America deserves a thousand 9/11s for this outrage.”Mr. Beierle, a 40-year-old alumnus of Florida State University, had a history of sexual misconduct against women going back to grade school through his military career, and an equally long trail of misogynistic and racist content posted on the web, including songs he wrote and recorded about his frustrations and failures in life, love and work, according to the investigation.The department interviewed dozens of people and combed through thousands of pages of documents, including journal entries and medical records.In a video titled “Plight of the Adolescent Male,” which Mr. Beierle posted online four years before the attack, he invoked Elliot O. Rodger, the 22-year-old gunman who documented his rage against women for rejecting him before he killed six people, injured 14 others and took his own life in a 2014 rampage in Isla Vista, Calif. Both men identified as involuntary celibates.The last song Mr. Beierle posted to his SoundCloud account included threatening lyrics to “put someone in a neck brace.”Although Mr. Beierle had searched online for pornographic yoga content as well as locations and schedules of yoga studios in Tallahassee, the department concluded that there was no evidence he had specifically targeted any individual.But Mr. DeLeo said it was likely that Mr. Beierle targeted a “familiar community” in Tallahassee, where records show he had been arrested at least twice, including separate cases in 2012 and 2016 in which he was accused of groping a woman. Both of those cases were dismissed.The department also obtained communications from 2013 between Mr. Beierle and a woman named Jennifer whom he had met online and who mentioned that she had attended a hot yoga class in Tallahassee. The relationship soured after Mr. Beierle sent her sexually suggestive messages, according to the police.Chief DeLeo said Mr. Beierle suffered severe financial stress because he had been fired at least twice from substitute teaching jobs and sought mental health counseling on a number of occasions. Chief DeLeo said that records could not be released because of privacy laws.Days before the shooting, Mr. Beierle purchased a yoga mat and ear plugs at a Walmart and checked into a hotel, according to the police. He canceled his psychiatry appointments with the United States Department of Veterans Affairs.On Nov. 2, the day of the shooting, Mr. Beierle left two hotel keys in his room, a sign that he was not planning to return, Chief DeLeo said.Then Mr. Beirele went to Hot Yoga Tallahassee, arriving at 5:29 p.m.Minutes later, Mr. Beierle shot Dr. Nancy Van Vessem, 61, a faculty member at Florida State, and Maura Binkley, 21, a student there, killing them both. Five other people were injured.When Mr. Beierle’s Glock handgun jammed, one person hit him with a vacuum cleaner, the police said. Another pretended to play dead and later escaped.Mr. Beirele shot himself in the head and was found dead in the middle of the yoga studio. He had almost 100 rounds of ammunition with him, Chief DeLeo said.“I know it sounds difficult to say,” he added, “but this could have been even worse than what it was.”Because of an editing error, an earlier version of this article misstated the number of victims. There were seven, not six.AdvertisementSupported byBy Matthew HaagStephen Paddock, the gunman who killed 58 people in a barrage of gunfire from his perch in a Las Vegas hotel suite, had sought infamy and most likely chose his target, an outdoor music festival, because of the image of harming people who were having fun, according to an F.B.I. report released on Tuesday.But after a lengthy investigation, a team of investigators and behavioral analysts could not determine a “single or clear motivating factor” behind Mr. Paddock’s October 2017 attack, the report concluded. In the years before the mass shooting, Mr. Paddock had complained about his declining physical and mental health, which led him to meticulously plan the attack with the explicit intention of committing suicide in the end, the F.B.I. found.“His inability or unwillingness to perceive any alternatives to this ending influenced his decision to attack,” stated the report, which lists 10 findings over three pages. “The planning and preparation — in and of itself — was likely satisfying to Paddock as it provided a sense of direction and control despite his mental and physical decline.”Yet Mr. Paddock left no suicide note, manifesto or communication about the attack or his thinking, investigators said. The F.B.I. report underscored the lingering mystery of the rampage, echoing the frustrations expressed by investigators just days after the attack — that Mr. Paddock had carefully covered his tracks, had not told anyone about his plans and had no obvious motivations.“The L.V.R.P.’s Key Findings illustrate that Paddock was, in many ways, similar to other active shooters the F.B.I. has studied,” the report said, referring to the Las Vegas Review Panel, a group of investigators, psychologists and other experts who analyzed evidence over a year.The report portrays Mr. Paddock as heavily influenced by his father, a notorious bank robber in the 1960s and ’70s who landed on the F.B.I.’s most wanted list, and as being devoid of empathy for others. According to the report, he viewed people much the same way he approached gambling: A life, like every bet, was transactional.That mind-set led him to target the Route 91 Harvest Festival, the country music show below his suite on the 32nd floor of the Mandalay Bay Resort and Casino.“He had a history of exploiting others through manipulation and duplicity, sometimes resulting in a cruel deprivation of their expectations without warning,” the F.B.I. said in the report.AdvertisementSupported byBy Serge F. KovaleskiA San Francisco software executive has donated more than $62,000 to try to ensure that the cache of firearms that was owned by the gunman in the Las Vegas massacre will be destroyed.In the aftermath of the 2017 shooting, loved ones of the 58 people who lost their lives in the rampage faced a difficult choice over what to do with the 50 guns and accessories that were owned by the gunman, Stephen Paddock. They could possibly sell the weapons to raise money or have the guns destroyed in a symbolic renunciation of violence.Now the families don’t have to worry about making that decision — the donor, who wishes to remain anonymous, has stepped in to cover the funds. His only condition is that the guns are destroyed.The collection of firearms and equipment was valued at $62,340 in a recent inventory of Mr. Paddock’s nearly $1.4 million estate by a court-appointed special administrator. As Mr. Paddock died without a will, his mother, under Nevada law, became the heir to his assets, which she agreed to give to the families of the dead victims last March.After reading a New York Times article about the families’ gun dilemma that was published earlier this month, the California businessman decided to write a check to the families for $62,500. He contacted a reporter at The Times so that he could get in touch with the lawyer for the special administrator of the estate.“It was tugging at my heart strings and it seemed like a horrific situation for the families to deal with this choice,” he said in an interview. “I wanted to alleviate some of the pain or at least not allow it to get worse.”The executive said that he wants the donation to be anonymous because the focus should be on the families.“No credit in the face of pain,” he said. “This was about heartbreak and wanting to help.”He said he made the donation conditional on the destruction of the firearms — which range from pistols to high-powered long arms — to ensure they do not end up back in circulation.“I think the families would feel better if the weapons are gone,” he said.Alice Denton, the lawyer for the special administrator of the estate, said the F.B.I., which is in possession of the firearms, had given a verbal commitment that it would destroy the weapons if it received a court order to do so. She said that she would seek such an order next month from the Las Vegas judge overseeing the estate case. In the meantime, no action to destroy the guns would be taken.A spokeswoman for the F.B.I.’s Las Vegas field office said the bureau was unable to comment.The executive — who said he favors stronger gun control but does not consider himself “an anti-gun activist” — said if it turns out that the F.B.I. will not destroy the firearms, he would try to find another way to have it done.Ms. Denton said that she received the check last week and was delighted about the donor’s generosity.“We are so grateful,” she said. “It shows the compassion that total strangers can have for victims of horrendous crimes, and that, in the face of such evil, there are good people.”Mynda Smith, whose sister was killed in the attack, said the donor’s gesture and his desire to see the guns destroyed would help relatives like her deal with their sorrow.“His desire to alleviate any more emotional pain for the families of the 58, and all survivors really, is what makes it a beautiful thing,” Ms. Smith said. “Closing this door in this way is the perfect gift for us.”Ms. Denton said the check has been deposited in her trust account and that it would be transferred to the estate once the guns are destroyed.Nearly half of the guns in question — 23 rifles and a revolver — were found in the gunman’s upper-floor room at the Mandalay Bay Resort and Casino, according to the estate inventory.It was from that perch at the hotel that he opened fire on an outdoor country music festival. Not only were dozens of people slaughtered, hundreds of others were injured in the worst mass shooting in modern American history.The rest of the gunman’s firearms were in his two Nevada homes. At his house in Mesquite, seven rifles, seven shotguns and five handguns were collected. The estate recently sold that property to an Oregon couple for $425,000.And two shotguns and five handguns were found at the gunman’s Reno home, which is still listed on the market for $374,900.Lawyers for some of the victims have said that distributing the money to only the loved ones of the dead meant that it could have a far greater impact on their lives than if the large number of people hurt in the attack were also beneficiaries.If the gunman’s estate were to be divided up equally, each of the 58 families would receive about $24,000 — with the firearms accounting for close to $1,100 per family. The estate also includes an investment property worth a little more than $90,000 and bank and brokerage accounts totaling $455,758.One family, who intends to sue the manufacturers of the guns used in the shooting, would like to see those weapons kept in tact rather than destroyed.Through a lawyer, the family of Carrie Parsons, who was killed in the attack, has reached out to Ms. Denton.“What we are saying is ‘Please don’t destroy these, they are evidence,” said one of the family’s lawyers, Rick Friedman, who added that he had not yet been able to identify those firearms.“Destroying guns he did not use, I have no problem with,” Mr. Friedman said.AdvertisementSupported byBy The Associated PressPORT-AU-PRINCE, Haiti — Gunmen attacked a motorcade carrying Chile's ambassador to Haiti on Wednesday, wounding his driver and another person and leaving three missing, officials said. The ambassador was not harmed.The Santiago, Chile-based charity America Solidaria said in a written statement Wednesday that gunmen opened fire as Ambassador Patricio Utreras and his wife were driving to a clean-water project in the Haitian capital's Croix-des-Bouquets area with Haitian infrastructure officials and 13 of the charity's volunteers from Colombia, Chile, Mexico and Haiti.Chile's Ministry of Foreign Affairs said four members of the Chilean Investigative Police, the country's equivalent of the FBI, repelled the attack and quickly pulled the ambassador and his wife, who was also in the convoy, from the area.The ambassador's driver was hit by a bullet in the wrist and an America Solidaria official was also lightly wounded. The local mayor said the ambassador's car was hit by many bullets.America Solidaria said Frantz Eliantzin, a Haitian driver for the charity; Abner Cejuste, an official with Haiti's water authority; and Andy Blaise, an engineer with Proyecto Universal, a Chile-based aid group; were all missing after the attack. No details were provided.America Solidaria said the attack occurred during a visit to Project Wash, a project providing clean water and sanitation to Boutin, an extremely poor section of Croix-des-Bouquets, an area populated by tens of thousands of people displaced by Haiti's 2010 earthquake._____AdvertisementSupported byBy ReutersLOS ANGELES — A former California nursing student who killed seven people in a 2012 shooting rampage at a Christian college in the Bay Area city of Oakland, California, has died behind bars, state prison officials said on Wednesday.One Goh, 50, died on March 20 at the California State Prison, Sacramento, Vicky Waters of the California Department of Corrections and Rehabilitation told Reuters in an email. Waters said medical examiners with the Sacramento County Coroner's office would determine the cause of death. She did not provide any further information. In May 2017 Goh pleaded no contest to murder charges stemming from the massacre at Oikos University in Oakland. He was sentenced in July of that year to life in prison without the possibility of parole. Prosecutors say Goh, who dropped out of the university in 2011, was angry at administrators at the school when he opened fire there on April 2, 2012, killing seven people.Goh was initially found mentally incompetent to stand trial after doctors determined that he suffered from paranoid schizophrenia. AdvertisementSupported byBy Sarah MervoshA 7-year-old who was riding in a car with her mother and three sisters was killed in Texas over the weekend, the authorities said, when a gunman in a pickup truck suddenly pulled up alongside them and opened fire.The authorities, who said the shooting appeared random and unprovoked, were searching Monday for her killer.The 7-year-old, Jazmine Barnes, was a second grader at a Houston-area elementary school, and her death — in the family’s car, early one morning over the holidays — unnerved and perplexed her community.“It’s New Year’s Eve,” Sheriff Ed Gonzalez of Harris County said in an interview on Monday. “It should be a time of fellowship and celebration for many — but not for this family. They have to bury a child.”Jazmine was riding with her mother and sisters, a 6-year-old and two teenagers, near Houston when they were attacked in a “random and senseless” shooting about 7 a.m. Sunday, Sheriff Gonzalez said.Jazmine’s mother, LaPorsha Washington, 30, told ABC13 that she and her family had been on a trip to get coffee when a man in a truck opened fire.“The truck slowed down and continued to fire as he was in front of us,” Ms. Washington, who was injured in the shooting, told the television station from a hospital bed. “It was not fair. It was not fair. He intentionally killed my child for no reason. He didn’t even know her.”After the shooting, she said, one of her other daughters realized that Jazmine had been struck.“She said: ‘Momma, Jazmine’s not moving. She’s not talking,’” Ms. Washington recalled. “I turned around and my 7-year-old was shot in the head.”Jazmine was pronounced dead at the scene, the sheriff said. Ms. Washington was shot in the arm and her 6-year-old daughter suffered injuries from broken glass, the authorities said.The authorities described the gunman as a white man in his 40s with a beard, wearing a red, hooded sweatshirt and driving a red pickup truck.The image of a white man suddenly firing on a black family raised questions about whether the shooting had been racially motivated. Sheriff Gonzalez said the authorities had not established a motive and could not discount the possibility of a hate crime.“We’re not ruling anything out and we’re not going to speculate,” he said.His office has released a grainy image of a red pickup truck and is asking for the public’s help to find the gunman.At a news conference on Monday, Jazmine’s father, Chris Cevilla, said Jazmine had been doing well in school and was a “sweet” and “innocent” young girl. He begged anyone with knowledge of what happened to “step up as if it were your own.”“I’m asking, from the bottom of my heart,” he said. “Whoever knows anything, please step up at this point in time and help me and my family get justice for my baby girl.”Follow Sarah Mervosh on Twitter: @smervoshAdvertisementSupported byBy Megan SpeciaOne was a dairy farmer. Another aspired to be a pilot. One was an elder known for helping newcomers. Another was a teenager who called his mother when the shooting started. The 50 people slaughtered by a gunman at two Christchurch mosques last week spanned a range of backgrounds. Here is what we know about them.Atta Elayyan, 33, was a technology entrepreneur, a goalkeeper and a new father. He played for New Zealand’s national futsal team, according to the New Zealand Football association, which confirmed his death. Futsal is a version of five-a-side soccer played indoors.“There are no words to sum up how we are all feeling,” one of his teammates, Josh Margetts, said in a statement. “There is a huge hole in our hearts as we come to terms with the loss of a great person and a good mate. He will be sorely missed.” Mr. Elayyan was born in Kuwait and studied computer science at the University of Canterbury. He was the chief executive and a co-founder of LWA Solutions, a mobile app start-up. He was well known in the futsal world and in Christchurch’s tech community. He and his wife, Farah, have a young daughter, Aya, whose photos appear in abundance on his Facebook page. In one, she is wearing a bib that says: “My dad rocks.”[We learned more about Mr. Elayyan from his family as they gathered to remember him and say goodbye.]Three-year-old Mucad Ibrahim is the youngest person confirmed to have been killed in the attacks. He was at Al Noor mosque and became separated from his brother and father when the shooting began.“He was a Muslim-born Kiwi who was full of energy, love and happiness,” his family said in a statement. “He is remembered in our community as a young boy who emanated nothing but the representation of God’s love, peace and mercy.”“Will miss you dearly brother,” Mucad’s brother Abdi Ibrahim wrote on Facebook. Mucad was wearing a white thobe and his favorite white hat on Friday, “and so returned to His Lord in a state of pure innocence and spiritual beauty,” the family’s statement said.The family said they had taken solace from a global outpouring of support. “Knowing that New Zealand and the whole world stands behind our boy reassures us that violence and racism are unwelcome in our world,” they said. “I’ve lost my little boy, he’s just turned 14,” Sayyad Milne’s father, John Milne, told The New Zealand Herald through tears.Sayyad was one of two Cashmere High School students killed in the attack, according to the school’s principal, Mark Wilson. The boy was an avid soccer player. “He proved himself to be not only a truly outstanding goalkeeper, but a great friend and colleague, a real team player with a fabulous attitude and a warm and friendly personality,” St. Albans Shirley Football Club said in a statement on Facebook. “Sayyad was one of our own and we will always remember him.”Lilik Abdul Hamid, 57, originally from Indonesia, had been an aircraft maintenance engineer with Air New Zealand for 16 years, the company’s chief executive, Christopher Luxon, said in a statement. “He first got to know the team even earlier when he worked with our aircraft engineers in a previous role overseas,” Mr. Luxon said. “The friendships he made at that time led him to apply for a role in Air New Zealand and make the move to Christchurch.” Mr. Hamid is survived by his wife and two children, Mr. Luxon said. On Facebook, one of Mr. Hamid’s friends called him “a man with a gold heart who always opened his heart and home to everyone.” Areeb Ahmed, 27, was an employee of PricewaterhouseCoopers, a statement released by the company said. Pakistan’s foreign ministry said he was originally from that country’s largest city, Karachi. “Areeb was a loved and respected member of our PwC family,” the company wrote on Facebook. “His smile, warmth, dedication, respect and humor will be deeply missed.”New Zealand Football confirmed the death of Tariq Omar, 24, a soccer player who coached for several of Christchurch United Football Club’s junior teams. Colin Williamson, the club’s academy director, called him “a beautiful human being with a tremendous heart and love for coaching.”“Our coaches and his players are struggling to understand what has happened and we are trying to support our club members as best as we can,” Mr. Williamson said in a statement released by the club. “But of course our main thoughts and concerns go out to Tariq’s family who are in our hearts and prayers.”Shahid Suhail, 35, from Pakistan, was an engineer who worked for a resin manufacturer in Christchurch, according to Stuff, a news website. He had a wife and two young daughters. “His daughters were his life,” said his wife, Asma.Syed Jahandad Ali, 34, originally from Lahore, Pakistan, worked at Intergen, a software company and had a wife and three children, according to a fundraising page created by the company. In a statement, the company called him “a kind and gentle man.”“Syed Jahandad Ali has deeply touched the lives of his friends, colleagues and wider technology community through his knowledge and skills. We are devastated to have lost a very loved Intergenite” the statement read.Haroon Mahmood, 40, had worked in banking in Pakistan before moving to New Zealand, Stuff reported. He taught at a private school for international students and had been a tutor at Lincoln University in Christchurch, according to Radio New Zealand. He had a wife and two children. Farhaj Ahsan, 30, originally from Hyderabad, India, had lived for 10 years in New Zealand, where he worked as an electrical engineer. He left a wife and two children, according to his brother, Kashif Ahsan, who spoke to the BBC. Maheboob Khokhar, a 65-year-old Indian engineer, was on his first trip to New Zealand, visiting his son, who had moved there from India eight years ago. His wife, Akhtar Khokhar, said they had been in the country for two months. He was at Al Noor mosque the day before they had planned to leave. Muhammad Haziq Mohd-Tarmizi, a Malaysian 17-year-old, was among those killed at Al Noor Mosque, the police said. His father was wounded in the attack, according to the Malaysian government. Asif Vora was among five Indian nationals whose deaths were confirmed by the Indian High Commission in New Zealand. Radio New Zealand said he was 58, and that he and his son had been killed at Al Noor mosque.Asif Vora’s son, Ramiz Vora, 28, had become a father just days before his death, according to Radio New Zealand. Ansi Alibava, 25, another of the Indian nationals among the victims, had moved to New Zealand with her husband, Abdul Nazer, in 2018, a year after they had married, he told CNN. She had just completed a master's degree in agribusiness management.Mr. Nazer was near an emergency door at Al Noor mosque when the shooting began and managed to escape. Outside, he saw Ms. Alibava lying facedown and ran to her, but was stopped by a police officer. “She had so many dreams,” he told CNN. Ozair Kadir, 25, dreamed of being a commercial pilot like his older brother. Originally from Hyderabad, India, he had moved to New Zealand in recent years and was set to make that a reality.Messages of grief and support for Mr. Kadir’s family poured in on the Facebook page of the International Aviation Academy of New Zealand, where he was in pilot training. Fellow students gathered on Monday to lay flowers at a makeshift memorial.“Ozair's presence will be sadly missed by all staff and students at the Academy,” the institute said in a statement. “Our love, thoughts and prayers are with his family who are now in New Zealand preparing to take Ozair home.”Haji Daoud al-Nabi, 71, arrived in New Zealand from Afghanistan about 30 years ago and was a central figure in Christchurch’s small Afghan community. He was a leader who welcomed everyone, his son Yama al-Nabi said. His son was running 10 minutes late for Friday Prayers, along with his 8-year-old daughter, when they came upon a police cordon. The younger Mr. Nabi’s hands trembled as he held up his mobile phone to show a picture of his father with his daughter in the mosque on a different day. “I thought I’d make it to the prayers. When I got there, the police were there. I was running and a guy said there was shooting in the mosque,” Yama al-Nabi said. He knew his father was inside, but news of his death only came hours later.Ali Elmadani, 65, immigrated to New Zealand from the United Arab Emirates with his family in 1998, his family confirmed to the Stuff news site. His daughter, Maha Elmadani, said her father had always told the family to be strong, so that was what she was trying to do.“He considered New Zealand home and never thought something like this would happen here,” she told Stuff.Husna Ahmad, 47, led a number of women and children to safety after the shooting at Al Noor mosque began, said Farid Ahmad, her husband. Mr. Ahmad, who is in a wheelchair, said she was killed when she returned to the mosque to check on him.“She was busy with saving lives, forgetting about herself,” said Mr. Ahmad, 59.Mr. Ahmad said he had forgiven the gunman and believed that good would eventually come from the killing. “This is what Islam taught me,” he said.“What he did was a wrong thing, but I would tell him that inside him, he has great potential to be a generous person, to be a kind person, to be a person who would save people, save humanity rather than destroying them,” Mr. Ahmad said. “I hope and I pray for him that he would be a great savior one day. I don’t have any grudge.”In the gunman’s self-made video of the killings he had posted to Facebook, a man can be seen trying to tackle him as he began firing in Al Noor mosque. That man was Naeem Rashid, according to witnesses.His family described him as an intelligent, ambitious and devout father of three. His eldest son, Talha Naeem, was also killed.Mr. Rashid was in his 40s, according to Stuff and Radio New Zealand. His brothers, interviewed in Pakistan, said he had left a senior position at Citibank in the city of Lahore in 2010 to pursue a doctorate in Christchurch and raise his children in a peaceful country. Starting over proved more difficult than he had expected.“Like everybody who leaves this country, he left Pakistan because of lack of opportunities here,” said Dr. Khurshid Alam, one of Mr. Rashid’s brothers. “He went there to do his Ph.D. Because of the financial situation, he couldn’t complete it, so he was teaching part-time.”He became much more devout during his time in New Zealand, according to his brothers. They said he talked about wanting to die a martyr, which he felt was the most honorable way for a Muslim to die. Talha Naeem, 21, had just graduated from college and entered the work force. He was the eldest of Naeem Rashid’s three children — the second is 18, the youngest is 5 — and his father was especially proud of him, according to his family.The family had planned to return to Pakistan in May to help Talha find a wife.Amjad Hamid, 57, was a cardiologist who had spent the last few years working with rural communities in the mountainous area of Taranaki, on New Zealand’s North Island, though he continued to live in Christchurch with his wife and family. At Hawera Hospital in Taranaki, he often brought colleagues fresh baklava from a Christchurch bakery. “He was well liked for his kindness, compassion and sense of humor,” the Taranaki District Health Board said in a statement. “He was a hard-working doctor, deeply committed to caring for his patients, and a thoughtful team member who was supportive of all staff.”Hi wife, Hanan al-Adem, told Radio New Zealand she still could not believe he was gone. “He was the perfect man, it’s a big loss,” she said. Kamel Darwish, 38, arrived early at his brother’s home in Christchurch on the eve of the attack. He had traveled from the countryside, where he worked at a dairy farm, because “he didn’t want to miss Friday prayers,” said his brother, Zuhair Darwish. New Zealand had been his home for just six months. He had moved from Jordan because his brother had convinced him there was no safer, better place to raise a family. His wife and children were set to arrive in a month.“He was caring, he was honest, he was a loving person,” his brother said.Linda Armstrong, 64, was a third-generation New Zealander who grew up in Auckland and converted to Islam in her 50s, her nephew Kyron Gosse said.“Linda had a huge heart and what little she had, she was more than happy to share with her family and Muslim community,” Mr. Gosse wrote in a tribute to his aunt on Facebook. “She would tell me stories about Ramadan when all the families would come together at the mosque sharing homemade meals and having a feast, laughing and chatting.”Lateef Alabi, a leader at the Linwood mosque, told The New York Times that Ms. Armstrong had been among the victims there. Her younger brother, Tony Gosse, remembered her as a peaceful woman with a “a stubborn ideology of this world.”“We didn't always see eye to eye but she lived a very humble lifestyle and was always unselfishly helping others. She volunteered at refugee centers and was an advocate for women's rights,” he said. “She always had an open ear and a shoulder to lean on.”Mohammed Imran Khan, 47, also known as Imran Bhai, was originally from India and was killed at the Linwood mosque, Stuff reported. He owned a restaurant, the Indian Grill, and two other Christchurch businesses. A post on the restaurant’s Facebook page the day after the attacks said it would be closed indefinitely.Mohamad Moosid Mohamedhosen, 54, a citizen of Mauritius, was killed at the Linwood mosque, the police said. Hamza Mustafa, 16, called his mother when the shooting began at Al Noor mosque, she told Stuff.“He said ‘Mum, there’s someone come into the mosque and he’s shooting us,’” Salwa Mustafa said. “I called ‘Hamza, Hamza,’ and I can hear his little voice and after that it was quiet.”Hamza Mustafa attended Cashmere High School, as did Sayyad Milne, another teenager killed in the attack. Khaled Mustafa, 44, Hamza Mustafa’s father, was also killed at Al Noor mosque. Radio New Zealand said the Mustafas were originally from war-ravaged Syria, and that they had moved to New Zealand from Jordan last year. Hamza’s 13-year-old brother Zaed was wounded.“Our lives have completely changed,” Ms. Mustafa told Stuff.Junaid Ismail, 36, was a Christchurch native who worked at the family business, a dairy, according to Radio New Zealand. He had a wife and three children. His twin brother, Zahid, survived the shooting.Abdelfattah Qasem, a 60-year-old Palestinian, worked in Kuwait for much of his life, Stuff reported. He moved to New Zealand with his family in the early 1990s, after the first Gulf War. A relative told Stuff that Mr. Qasem was “like an elder for the community,” known for helping newcomers to Christchurch. He had three daughters and was about to become a grandfather.Originally from Fiji, Ashraf Ali, 61, had lived in Christchurch for 17 years, Stuff reported. Ashraf Ali Razat, 58, was visiting New Zealand from Fiji when he was killed, according to Radio New Zealand. Mathullah Safi, 55, killed at Al Noor mosque, came to New Zealand from Afghanistan through India about nine years ago, Stuff reported. He was married with seven children. Hussein Al-Umari, 35, killed at Al Noor mosque, worked in the travel industry but had recently lost his job, his parents told Stuff. The family moved to New Zealand from the United Arab Emirates 22 years ago, according to the news site. Musa Vali Suleman Patel, 60, an imam in Fiji for about 25 years, had traveled to Australia and then New Zealand to spend time with children and friends, the Fiji Muslim League said in a statement.  He “served selflessly as an imam, teacher, mentor, and was much sought after as a powerful orator and speaker,” the organization said in a statement. He is survived by his wife and five children.Ashraf al-Masri had two young children and worked in a shop, according to Stuff. Police said he was 54 years old and a dual citizen of Egypt and New Zealand. Hussein Moustafa, 70, was originally from Egypt, according to Stuff. “He loved the mosque, he loved tidying it, he loved nourishing it and he was always a welcoming face there,” his daughter-in-law, Nada Tawfeek, told the news site. Mounir Soliman, 68, had been a design engineer and quality manager at Scotts Engineering in Christchurch since 1997, according to Stuff. He was a “lovely man,” said a spokeswoman for the company, Glenda Hillstead. He was married and had no children. Zeeshan Raza, 38, a mechanical engineer, moved to New Zealand last year from Karachi, Pakistan, Stuff reported. He and his parents were killed at the Linwood mosque. Mr. Raza’s father, Ghulam Hussain, was 66 years old. He and his wife, Karam Bibi, came to New Zealand last month to visit their son, Stuff reported. Ms. Bibi was 63, the police said. She and Mr. Hussain are survived by a daughter, according to Stuff.Abdukadir Elmi, 78, came to New Zealand with his family about 10 years ago, Stuff reported. In a Facebook post, his son, Said Abdukadir, said he was “a giant among his community,” generally known as Sheikh Abdukadir. “Kids would run to grab his chair when they hear the noise of his cane hitting against ground upon his entrance,” he wrote. He is survived by five sons, four daughters and his wife of nearly 50 years, according to Stuff.Mohsin Al Harbi, 63, had lived for 25 years in New Zealand, where he worked in water desalination. After the shooting, his wife, Manal, was hospitalized with a heart attack while searching for him, Stuff reported.Osama Adnan Youssef Kwaik, 37, was born in Gaza and raised in Egypt, according to Stuff. A civil engineer, he moved to Christchurch in 2017 and was in the process of applying for New Zealand citizenship. He had a wife and three children, one of whom was born in Christchurch.His older brother, Youssef Adnan Abu Kwaik, penned a tribute to Osama on Facebook, detailing how he thought Osama had found the safety and security he had desired in New Zealand.“From the first week, you sounded happy. Those Kiwi guys took you by surprise, didn’t they? I remember when you’d call me to tell me how they smile at you and your family,” he wrote. “It’s been a year and a half since you’ve moved my brother and your calls have started to include names of friends from work, neighbors and the community. You found the home you were looking for.”Mojammel Hoq, 30, moved to New Zealand from Bangladesh a few years ago and was studying in Christchurch, according to Radio New Zealand. Mohammed Omar Faruk, 36, was a welder who came to New Zealand from Bangladesh about two years ago, a friend told Stuff. His pregnant wife remained in Bangladesh, the friend said.Muhammed Abdusi Samad, 66, from Bangladesh, was a lecturer at Lincoln University who often led prayers at Al Noor mosque, Stuff reported.Muse Nur Awale, 77, had been living in Christchurch for about 30 years, Stuff reported. He was married and had no children.Ahmed Gamaluddin Abdel-Ghany, 68, emigrated from Egypt with his wife and son in 1996, Stuff reported. His son, Omar, called him “a great man with the purest of hearts” in an Instagram post. Zakaria Bhuiya was a welder originally from Bangladesh. He had recently married a woman from his home country and was waiting for a visa so she could join him in New Zealand, according to Reuters. Mr. Bhuiya worked for AMT Mechanical Services, which said in a statement that he had taken the day off to celebrate his 33rd birthday at the mosque. “Zakaria was a respected member of our team and a dear friend of ours,” the company said in a statement posted on a fund-raising page for Mr. Bhuiya’s wife. Jamie Tarabay, Damien Cave, Jon Hurdle and Charlotte Graham-McLay contributed reporting from Christchurch, New Zealand. Meher Ahmad contributed reporting from Lahore, Pakistan.International video coverage from The New York Times.Paul Manafort’s Trail of ScandalsMy Dead Dad’s Porno TapesTen Meter TowerBetween Sound and SilenceCoal Miner to Trump: “Coal Mining Isn’t Coming Back”House Tour | Cary LeibowitzSanctuary City HotlineInternational video coverage from The New York Times.Paul Manafort’s Trail of ScandalsMy Dead Dad’s Porno TapesTen Meter TowerBetween Sound and SilenceCoal Miner to Trump: “Coal Mining Isn’t Coming Back”House Tour | Cary LeibowitzSanctuary City HotlineAdvertisementSupported byBy Julie BosmanAURORA, Ill. — An angry worker who stormed through a suburban Chicago factory shooting his co-workers after being fired was barred from having the handgun he was carrying, the authorities said on Saturday.Gary Martin, 45, who died in a shootout with the police after a rampage on Friday that left five workers dead and at least six other people wounded, had his state weapons permit revoked years ago because of a felony assault conviction, the police in Aurora, Ill., said. Still, they said, Mr. Martin’s gun — a .40-caliber Smith & Wesson handgun with a laser sight — was never taken away.“Some disgruntled person walked in and had access to a firearm that he shouldn’t have had access to,” said Kristen L. Ziman, the chief of police in Aurora, where the shooting took place.[Read more about the shooting here.]Chief Ziman said that the police were trying to determine why Mr. Martin still had a gun, despite having his permit revoked five years ago.According to Illinois gun law, a person must be granted a Firearm Owners Identification card, or FOID, to possess a firearm. At least two million people in the state have the cards.But under the law, the process of removing firearms from people whose cards have been revoked is weak, making it easy for some to keep their weapons with little threat of enforcement or penalty.That appears to have been the case with Mr. Martin, who the police said received a card in January 2014. That March, he applied for a concealed-carry permit, and a background check revealed that he had a felony conviction for aggravated assault in Mississippi from 1995. With that, the Illinois State Police revoked Mr. Martin’s card and mailed him a letter ordering him to relinquish his firearm and card within 48 hours.The statute allows law enforcement agencies to petition the courts to seize weapons if they aren’t turned in, but in many instances, the remaining weapons go unchecked. Experts said that the state rules — without a clear, mandatory enforcement requirement — leave a gaping loophole for those who choose not to give up their guns. In 2016, only about 4,000 of the 11,000 people whose cards were revoked submitted the mandatory reports explaining what they did with their guns, The Chicago Tribune reported in 2017.Sgt. Bill Rowley, a spokesman for the Aurora Police Department, said the police had no record of being notified by the state police that Mr. Martin had not volunteered his firearm as required in 2014. It was unclear whether Mr. Martin, who lived in Aurora at the time of his death, also lived there in 2014.The police on Saturday gave a fuller account of the deadly events inside the Henry Pratt Company warehouse on Friday afternoon, and identified the five workers — all co-workers of Mr. Martin — who were killed.The victims included some of the company’s most experienced workers but also its newest: Josh Pinkard, who was the plant manager of the warehouse, perished in the shooting, as did Trevor Wehner, who was a student at Northern Illinois University and an intern in the company’s human resources department. Mr. Wehner was expected to graduate from college in May. Friday was the first day of his internship, according to officials from Northern Illinois University.“He knew he wanted to work in the H.R. business and was hoping this internship would lead into a full-time job in the future,” said Winter Lane, Mr. Wehner’s girlfriend of more than three years, who grew up with him in the same small town of Serena, in north central Illinois.Everyone there knew Mr. Wehner. He was kind, the most selfless person she had ever met, she said, someone with a big smile and a personality to match. “He always saw the good in everyone,” she said.Also killed, the police said, were Vicente Juarez, a stock room attendant and forklift operator; Clayton Parks, the human resources manager; and Russell Beyer, a mold operator. Officials at Northern Illinois said that Mr. Parks had also graduated from the university, in 2014, and that it was offering counseling help to those in need. (The school, in DeKalb, Ill., was the site of another mass shooting 11 years ago.)Abby Parks, the wife of Clayton Parks, said he was devoted to their son, Axel, who is 8 months old. “The family we created together was Clay’s greatest joy,” she said. “He took his responsibilities as a husband and father very seriously and held those titles above all else.” The couple had been married since 2016.The police first received several 911 calls at 1:24 p.m. on Friday, as frantic callers said there was a shooter at the warehouse. Mr. Martin had been summoned to what the police described as a “termination meeting” at the warehouse where he had worked for at least 15 years. At least two victims were shot at the scene of that meeting.Four minutes later, the police arrived and were confronted by the gunman. Two of the first four officers to arrive were shot and transported to hospitals with injuries that were not life-threatening.According to the police, Mr. Martin then retreated into the 29,000-square-foot building, hiding from officers in a machine shop near the back of the facility. It took about 90 minutes for officers to find, shoot and kill him.Scott Hall, the chief executive of Mueller Water Products, of which the Henry Pratt Company is a subsidiary, said that Friday was “the worst day our company has ever had.”Mr. Martin was being fired on Friday for a “culmination of various workplace rules violations,” he said, declining to describe the violations. The firing came at the end of a “progressive discipline process,” he said.The company conducted a background check upon Mr. Martin’s hiring 15 years ago that did not surface his felony conviction in Mississippi.Before Friday, there was no indication that Mr. Martin was violent. “If we have reason to believe that somebody is going to be violent, we take precautions,” he said. “I can only assume that we did not.”Family members of Mr. Martin arrived at the Aurora police station on Friday afternoon, weeping and hugging one another after officers told them that he was dead.“He was the shooter,” said Tameka Martin, who said she was Mr. Martin’s sister. “He shot officers. If they did shoot him and kill him, they were, I guess, defending themselves.”Ms. Martin said that her brother had told his family that he had lost his job at Henry Pratt. At dinner a few nights ago at their mother’s home, Mr. Martin would barely speak about it. He was “very depressed,” she said.Sarah Mervosh, Julia Jacobs and Richard A. Oppel Jr. contributed reporting from New York, and Doris Burke contributed research from New York.AdvertisementSupported byBy Damien CaveCHRISTCHURCH, New Zealand — Abdul Aziz was praying with his four sons in the Linwood Mosque when he heard the gunshots. Rather than run from the noise, he ran toward it, grabbed the first thing he could find — a credit card machine — and flung it at the attacker.The man dropped a shotgun, and Mr. Aziz picked it up. “I pulled the trigger, and there was nothing,” he recalled. The gunman ran to his car, where he had other weapons, and Mr. Aziz followed, throwing the shotgun at the vehicle and shattering a window.Mr. Aziz’s actions, which he and others described in interviews, may have prompted the gunman to speed away rather than return to kill more people. Minutes later, two police officers from another town who were in the area rammed the suspect’s car into a curb and took him into custody, ending the worst mass murder in New Zealand’s modern history.The authorities have not released a detailed account of the police response to Friday’s massacre at two mosques in the city of Christchurch, emphasizing that officers apprehended the suspect only 36 minutes after receiving the first emergency call.But interviews with dozens of survivors, and an analysis of a video recorded by the attacker as well as one made of his arrest by a bystander, suggest that the violence ended after a near miss by the police at the first mosque — and acts of courage during and after the attack on the second.If not for the two police officers, who have not been publicly identified, and Mr. Aziz, 48, a ponytailed furniture shop owner who fled Afghanistan a quarter-century ago, the slaughter might have continued. The suspect had two other guns in his car, the police said, as well as two homemade explosives.“It absolutely was his intention to continue with his attack,” said Prime Minister Jacinda Ardern after the arrest of Brenton Tarrant, 28, a former personal trainer from Australia who allegedly distributed a manifesto of white extremist hatred minutes before the rampage.The police said 42 people were killed at central Christchurch’s Al Noor Mosque and seven at the Linwood Mosque, and some attributed the lower toll at Linwood to Mr. Aziz’s decision to confront the gunman. (An additional victim died at a hospital.)[New Zealand will open an inquiry on what was known about the gunman before the massacre.]It is unclear exactly what time the gunman entered Al Noor, which was crowded with worshipers for Friday Prayer. But the police said that they received the first call for help at 1:41 p.m., and that the first officers arrived there six minutes later.The video recorded by the gunman, which was livestreamed on Facebook, showed a man trying to tackle him inside the mosque, only to be shot and killed.Six minutes after firing his first shot, he drove away. Three minutes later, a siren can be heard on the video as he is driving to the second mosque.The siren becomes louder, then fades, suggesting the police and the gunman may have just missed each other, with officers and medical personnel racing toward Al Noor as he was pulling away.The nearest police station is less than two kilometers from the mosque, or little more than a mile, but the responding officers may have been farther away.There are 827 full-time constables in the Canterbury district, the pastoral region on the east coast of New Zealand’s South Island that includes Christchurch and that is home to about 612,000 people. By comparison, Boston, with a population of 617,000, employs more than 2,100 full-time officers.About 30 front-line police officers would be on the streets of Christchurch around lunchtime on an average Friday, said Chris Cahill, a detective inspector who is president of a local labor union for police officers.When that first panicked call came in, he added, the dispatcher would have sent all of them to Al Noor.Front-line officers in New Zealand are not armed and for protection wear only stab-proof vests, so those responding to the shootings would have had to pull over and retrieve weapons — a Glock pistol or a semiautomatic M4 rifle — and ballistic armor from the trunks of their cars, Mr. Cahill said.The police said a special armed tactical unit arrived at Al Noor Mosque four minutes after the first officers, or 10 minutes after the initial emergency call.Mr. Cahill said it normally would have taken longer, with team members summoned to a police station to suit up. On Friday, though, they happened to be in a training session in the city center and wearing their gear, he said.“Any police force in the world — to get to the scene in six minutes, a specialist team there in 10 — that would be a success,” Mr. Cahill said.Patrick Skinner, a former C.I.A. counterterrorism officer now working for an American police department, agreed.“I’d say that the police response was rather quick in a tactical sense,” he said, noting that the officers were rushing into a violent situation that was still unfolding — and that had been encouraged by individuals espousing bigotry and hatred.Still, it was not fast enough. The officers arrived to a horrific scene, with the dead and wounded outnumbering the city’s usual on-duty police force.“There was a river of blood coming out of the mosque,” said Paul Bennett, a paramedic who entered the building with a police escort. “It was literally flowing off terra-cotta tiles.”The authorities have said little about what happened next. It is not clear when ambulances arrived, and Christchurch Hospital reported receiving several wounded victims in cars driven by relatives. But Mr. Bennett and other medical workers said the speed of the response saved lives.And then the gunman attacked the Linwood Mosque, almost four miles east of Al Noor.“The second mosque would have been the real confusion,” Mr. Cahill said. “Calls coming in from one, and then calls saying a second mosque, and people saying, ‘What? Do you mean this mosque or that one?’ ”Lateef Alabi, the imam leading prayers at Linwood, said he heard a voice outside at about 1:55 p.m. so he stopped and looked out a window. He saw a man in military gear, wearing a helmet and holding a gun.Then he saw two bodies on the ground.He shouted to the congregation of about 80 people to get down. The gunman turned and fired through a window. He kept firing.Mr. Aziz ran toward him and threw the credit card machine, which was about the size of a large rock.Both men were relatively short and powerfully built. “He took five, six, shots at me,” Mr. Aziz recalled. “I dove between the cars.”Following the attacker, he found the shotgun, picked it up and tried to fire it at him, but it was empty.Mr. Aziz said his children were screaming for him to come back, and the gunman seemed agitated, swearing and talking about “killing you all.”Earlier at Al Noor, the gunman had returned to his car, retrieved another weapon and gone back inside to kill again. But at Linwood, after Mr. Aziz threw the shotgun at the vehicle — “like an arrow,” he said — the attacker drove away.“It was like my mind wasn’t working,” Mr. Aziz said. “It was automatic reaction, like anybody. I was prepared to give my life to save another life.”Officers arrived at the mosque soon afterward, he and other survivors said.Meanwhile, the authorities had begun locking down the neighborhood and searching for the gunman.The police said they arrested the suspect nearby at 2:17 p.m., but they have declined to explain how they found him and managed to capture him without an exchange of gunfire.Officials have confirmed the officers involved were from Lincoln, a town about 20 kilometers, or 12 miles, from central Christchurch. Local news reports said the officers just happened to be in Christchurch on the day of the attack.A video recorded by a bystander about four kilometers, or 2.5 miles, from Linwood shows the front of a police cruiser wedged into the right side of a sport utility vehicle and tilting it up against the curb on a leafy boulevard. The front tire of the suspect’s vehicle is still spinning.The suspect’s trunk is open, and one officer with a handgun drawn is approaching the passenger’s side door, which is also open. The other officer, armed with a rifle, is circling around the front of the vehicle to back him up.The first officer, still with gun drawn, pulls a rifle out of the vehicle with his free hand and tosses it on the sidewalk. Then he pulls the suspect out and the two officers subdue him.It is unclear if the officers or the suspect are saying anything to one another, and whether the suspect put up a fight.Mr. Tarrant was charged with murder on Saturday. More charges are expected.Because of an editing error, an earlier version of this article referred incorrectly to which side of the shooter’s vehicle he was pulled from by two arresting officers. It was the passenger side, not the driver’s side.Charlotte Graham-McLay, Jon Hurdle and Jamie Tarabay contributed reporting from Christchurch, New Zealand, Jin Wu from Hong Kong, and Malachy Browne from New York.Want more coverage from Australia and New Zealand? Sign up for the weekly Australia Letter, start your day with your local Morning Briefing and join us in our Facebook group.AdvertisementSupported byBy Dan BilefskyAlexandre Bissonnette, a 29-year-old former politics student fixated on President Trump, the far right and Muslims, was sentenced on Friday to life in prison without the possibility of parole for 40 years for shooting six people dead in an attack on a mosque in Quebec City in January 2017.During the attack, Mr. Bissonette shot several worshipers in the head. Nineteen people were injured, including one who was paralyzed for life.Under Canadian law, Mr. Bissonnette could have gone to prison for 150 years — or 25 years for each of the six deaths. While underscoring the brutality of the attack, Justice Franзois Huot of Quebec Superior Court suggested that such a harsh sentence would be excessive by denying the defendant the hope of ever leaving prison.But Muslim leaders, including the mosque’s president, Mohamed Labidi, said they were deeply disappointed by Justice Huot’s sentence, saying it did not do justice to a horrific crime.“This rampage left children without parents, destroyed lives, and this man can be free after 40 years?” he asked with incredulity. “We are very disheartened and upset.”Justice Huot announced the sentence after a hearing of more than five hours, during which he gave a minute-by-minute account of the rampage, which he said was “premeditated, gratuitous and abject” and motivated by “visceral hatred toward Muslims.”Several family members of victims sobbed.Legal scholars said his decision was likely to be challenged on appeal and could end up before Canada’s Supreme Court. And once there, they said, it could become a seminal test of the constitutionality of consecutive life sentences.Justice Huot discussed the 2011 Canadian criminal law, introduced by the previous Conservative government, that allows a judge to give sentences in 25-year increments in cases of multiple murders.He said that a 25-year sentence was not severe enough in this case, given the severity of the crime, but that 50 years or more would be excessive.In what legal scholars called an “extremely complex judgment,” Justice Huot parsed his decision by sentencing Mr. Bissonnette to life in prison with no chance of parole for 25 years on the first five counts of murder, and added 15 years for the sixth count.In his written judgment, Justice Huot said applying the 2011 law would have flouted the Canadian Charter of Rights and Freedoms, which states that “everyone has the right not to be subjected to any cruel and unusual treatment or punishment.”Kent Roach, a law professor at the University of Toronto who specializes in criminal law, called the judgment “innovative” and said it was likely to be challenged.Noting the case of Bruce McArthur, who was convicted of killing eight men associated with Toronto’s gay community and  sentenced on Friday to life with no chance of parole for 25 years, Professor Roach said the sentences suggested that Canadian courts had a less punitive culture than the United States.“Both judgments reflect that Canadian judges are reluctant to give crushing sentences even for the most heinous crimes and resist inflexible sentencing laws,” he said.“In the U.S. there is a longer history of legislatures imposing mandatory sentences that limit judiciary discretion,” he added. “In Canada, there is more of a focus on rehabilitation.”He noted that Justice Huot appeared to have taken into account Mr. Bissonnette’s mental state.Canada’s Supreme Court has in recent years overturned “tough on crime” legislation introduced by the previous Conservative government, including mandatory minimum sentences for drug offenses and mandatory minimum sentences for gun crimes.Prosecutors had argued that six consecutive 25-year jail sentences for each of the six first-degree murder charges befitted the heinousness of the crime, which they called both “violent” and “racist.” Mr. Bissonnette pleaded guilty last year to the charges.In an interview before the sentence was handed down, Irwin Cotler, a prominent international human rights lawyer who served as Canadian justice minister and attorney general, noted that the judge would have to consider the egregiousness of the crime as well as Mr. Bissonnette’s mental state.“Sentencing in cases of multiple murders are supposed to bear in mind the principles of retribution and denunciation,” he said.Referring to the sentence the prosecution wanted, he added, “You could argue that 150 years is tantamount to a death sentence and we abolished capital punishment.”In recent years, several judges have handed out 75-year sentences, including in the case of Justin Bourque, who killed three Royal Canadian Mounted Police officers in a shooting rampage in 2014Mr. Bissonnette’s attack on the mosque convulsed Canada, shocking a country that prides itself on its multiculturalism.The sentence comes amid a rancorous debate in Quebec after the province’s premier, Franзois Legault, drew opprobrium from Muslim leaders last month for contending that Islamophobia wasn’t a problem in Quebec.His office later qualified that he did not mean Islamophobia didn’t exist, but, rather, that it wasn’t systemic in the province.Still, his remarks — two days after the second anniversary of the mosque attack — were greeted with anger by survivors, including Aymen Derbali, who was hit with seven bullets and paralyzed from the waist down after trying to distract Mr. Bissonnette during the rampage.“There is Islamophobia — the proof is what happened at the mosque,” he told reporters at a ceremony last month, where he was being honored for his bravery.[Sign up for the Canada Letter newsletter for more Canadian coverage.]During a sentencing hearing that lasted for several weeks last year, the prosecution argued that Mr. Bissonnette had killed in a premeditated fashion and approached his victims with a coldblooded ruthlessness that merited the toughest sentence the law allowed.The court heard that Mr. Bissonnette was a socially marginalized young man who had become enthralled by far-right websites and obsessed by serial killers, Muslims and Mr. Trump’s tweets.In the month before the attack, he surfed the internet 819 times for posts related to Mr. Trump, including the American president’s travel ban on several Muslim-majority countries.Mr. Bissonnette had targeted the mosque just hours after he learned of a tweet by Prime Minister Justin Trudeau welcoming refugees to Canada who were being spurned by Mr. Trump.But the defense presented a contrasting narrative of Mr. Bissonnette, describing him as a slight young man who had been mercilessly bullied at school. The defense suggested that society had failed him and that he deserved empathy and the chance for rehabilitation.His defense lawyer, Charles-Olivier Gosselin, told the court that Mr. Bissonette suffered from chronic psychiatric problems, and did not fit the violent profile of a serial killer for whom consecutive sentences were appropriate.Mr. Gosselin had proposed a life sentence with the possibility of parole after 25 years. Mr. Bissonnette, he argued, had showed signs of remorse, had cooperated with the police and had surrendered after the attack.Follow Dan Bilefsky on Twitter: @DanBilefskyIan Austen contributed reporting.AdvertisementSupported byBy Sarah MervoshIt took New Zealand just six days to announce an immediate plan to change to the nation’s gun policy after a gunman killed 50 people at two mosques in Christchurch last week.On Thursday, a day after the first victims were laid to rest, Prime Minister Jacinda Ardern announced a national ban on all military-style semiautomatic weapons, all high-capacity ammunition magazines and all parts that allow weapons to be modified into the kinds of guns used in last week’s attack.Ms. Ardern is expected to encounter little resistance in Parliament. The new law could be in place as soon as April 11.It is unclear how the weapons ban will be felt in New Zealand, where there are plenty of guns but relatively few murders. Since 2007, gun homicides have been in the single digits every year except in 2009, when there were 11.But the swift action already stands in stark contrast to the federal response to mass shootings in the United States, which has the highest rate of gun ownership in the world and is one of only a few countries that start with the assumption that gun ownership is a right, not a privilege.After a gunman killed 58 people in Las Vegas in 2017, it took 443 days for the United States to ban bump stocks, the attachments that enable semiautomatic rifles to fire in sustained, rapid bursts, which the gunman used in the attack. And after a mass shooting at a high school in Parkland, Fla., last year led to a wave of student activism, the House of Representatives voted to require background checks for all gun purchasers in February. It was the first significant gun control bill to clear the chamber in a quarter of a century, but it was unlikely to even be taken up in the Republican-controlled Senate.In most countries, mass shootings account for a small proportion of gun deaths. But they are often the political impetus for legislative change that can help prevent other kinds of gun violence, including intimate-partner violence and suicide.Here is a look at how some other countries took action after mass shootings.____Ms. Ardern said the overhauls planned in New Zealand were partially inspired by changes Australia made after a mass shooting there in 1996.After a gunman with a semiautomatic rifle killed 35 people near a popular tourist site in the Tasmanian town of Port Arthur, John Howard, Australia’s conservative prime minister at the time, introduced a federal law to officially make guns a privilege, not a right. Gun owners were forced to provide a valid reason for owning a weapon, such as farming or hunting. Licensing rules were tightened, a 28-day waiting period for gun purchases was imposed and a national gun registry was established.The overhaul also severely restricted firearms, including a ban on almost all automatic and semiautomatic rifles, as well as shotguns. Australia bought back more than 650,000 firearms, to the resentment of many rural gun owners.Australia has not had a shooting as deadly as the Port Arthur massacre since 1996. Research shows the country also saw a decline in homicide and suicide after the legislative change, although researchers disagree about whether the ban can be credited for reducing homicides, which had already been declining.Australia is a much smaller country than the United States and also had fewer barriers to enacting gun control: There is no constitutional right to bear arms, for example, and there are no pro-gun lobbying groups with the influence of the National Rifle Association.____In 1987, a gunman in the southern English town of Hungerford killed 16 people, leading to tough British laws that required shotgun owners to register their weapons and prohibited semiautomatic weapons.Nearly a decade later, another gunman walked into a primary school in Dublane, Scotland, and killed 16 small children and their teacher. The gunman had been granted permits for all four guns used in the shooting, including two semiautomatic pistols.Afterward, the British government took action to limit gun ownership by civilians. By the end of 1997, Parliament had outlawed the private ownership of nearly all handguns.____In 2002, a 19-year-old expelled student returned to his high school in Erfurt, in eastern Germany, armed, and killed 16 people.That year, the German government tightened gun laws, including raising the legal age for carrying sports weapons to 21 from 18 and requiring gun buyers under 25 to present certification that they are medically and psychologically fit.Germany strengthened gun laws even further after another shooting in 2009, when a 17-year-old got his hands on one of his father’s guns and went on a rampage at his school in Winnenden, in southwest Germany, killing 15 people. The new regulations included allowing for random checks on weapons owners.As of 2015, gun-related crimes were far more unusual in Germany than in the United States.____Canada has had tough restrictions on handguns and automatic weapons since the 1930s. But the rules were expanded to include rifles and shotguns after a gunman with a semiautomatic hunting rifle stormed an engineering school in Montreal in 1989.Shouting “I hate feminists,” he separated the women from the men and killed 14 female students before turning the gun on himself.After that shooting, rifles and other long guns had to be registered like handguns and a majority of semiautomatic weapons. Gun owners were also required to obtain a license.But the long gun registry was unpopular in rural and northern areas, and, over the objections of police forces and some provinces, was abolished in 2012.Efforts to keep track of rifle and shotgun sales — the majority of firearms in Canada — continue to be much debated. The province of Quebec introduced its own long gun registry last year.Max Fisher contributed reportingFollow Sarah Mervosh on Twitter: @smervoshAdvertisementSupported byBy Jacey FortinLaw enforcement officers fired their weapons more than 180 times when they responded to the shooting at Pulse, a gay nightclub in Orlando, Fla., where 49 people were killed in 2016. But no civilians were struck by the officers’ gunfire, the state attorney for the Orlando area said on Wednesday.“After a review of shots fired by law enforcement officers on June 12, 2016, at the Pulse nightclub, all officers have been cleared of any wrongdoing,” said Aramis D. Ayala, the state attorney for the Ninth Judicial Circuit in Florida, at a news conference. “No casualties were the result of friendly fire.”After the F.B.I. and the Florida Department of Law Enforcement submitted investigations to the state attorney’s office, officials there reviewed evidence — including video footage, 911 calls, police radio traffic, ballistic reports and hundreds of witness statements — for six months before the officers were cleared.Pulse was hosting a “Latin Night” when the gunfire erupted around 2 a.m. on that Sunday morning, leading to what was, at the time, the deadliest mass shooting in United States history. In addition to the 49 deaths, more than 50 people were injured.At the news conference on Wednesday, Deborah Barra, the chief assistant state attorney, described the shooting in detail, including the gunman’s and officers’ movements in the three hours that passed from the moment the first shots were fired to the moment when the gunman was shot and killed by law enforcement officials.She said the gunman, armed with an assault rifle and a handgun, moved through the club firing at people. Eventually, his rifle jammed. He went into a bathroom and fired shots using his handgun. Officers entered the club in pursuit of the gunman and later knocked holes in the wall of the nightclub to reach him. He eventually appeared in one of those holes to fire at the officers outside and was shot.Overall, there were five separate instances in which officers — 14 in total — fired shots, Ms. Barra said. “Each time a law enforcement officer pulled the trigger, it was reasonable and justifiable,” she added.Critics of the officers’ response have asked why they did not reach the gunman until about three hours after the shooting began. According to sheriff’s dispatch logs released in June 2016, injured people were hiding in the bathroom during the shooting and making calls to 911 operators, begging for officers to help them. Officials have said that they had no choice but to wait and try to negotiate because the gunman was holding people hostage and claimed that he had a bomb. Ultimately, no explosives were found.Concerns about the officers’ timing did not fall under the scope of the state attorney’s review, which was focused on the shots fired by officers and whether those shots were justified. Reviews like these typically follow police shootings.“As our city grieves the senseless tragedy of the Pulse nightclub shooting, I hope sharing the results of this investigation help the survivors and loved ones find some closure,” Ms. Ayala said in a statement.The news conference in Orlando came on the heels of another in Tallahassee; on Tuesday, the Tallahassee Police Department said that a man who had shot and killed two women at a yoga studio there in November had previously been reported to the F.B.I. for creating videos in which he threatened to hurt women.On Thursday, Florida will mark the one-year anniversary of the school shooting that killed 17 people in Parkland.And last month, a gunman in Sebring, Fla., shot and killed five women in a bank.AdvertisementSupported byThe attack marks a grim new age of social media-fueled terrorism.By Charlie WarzelMr. Warzel is an Opinion writer at large.This post has been updated. On Friday, a gunman strapped on a helmet camera, loaded his car with weapons, drove to a mosque in Christchurch, New Zealand, and began shooting at anyone who came into his line of vision. The act of mass terror was broadcast live for the world to watch on social media.Forty-nine people were killed and more than 40 others were wounded in the attack, which occurred at two different mosques in the city. A suspect, Brenton Harrison Tarrant, was charged with one count of murder, with more charges reportedly expected. Three other people were detained by the police, but one was released hours later.A 17-minute video of a portion of the attack, which leapt across the internet faster than social media censors could remove it, is one of the most disturbing, high-definition records of a mass-casualty attack of the digital age — a grotesque first-person-shooter documentation of man’s capacity for inhumanity. Videos of attacks are designed to amplify the terror, of course. But what makes this atrocity “an extraordinary and unprecedented act of violence,” as Prime Minister Jacinda Ardern described it, is the methodical nature with which it was conducted and how it was engineered for maximum virality.Though platforms like Facebook, Twitter and YouTube scrambled to take down the recording and an accompanying manifesto apparently from the gunman, they were no match for the speed of their users; new artificial-intelligence tools created to scrub such platforms of terrorist content could not defeat human cunning and an impulse to gawk. In minutes, the video was downloaded and mirrored onto additional platforms and ricocheted around the globe. Screen shots were created from still frames of bodies and uploaded to sites like Reddit, 4chan and Twitter where they were shared and reshared. Some Twitter users described frantically trying to stop videos in their feeds from autoplaying, so as not to be bombarded from around the globe with the recording of the carnage. Internet users dredged up the alleged shooter’s digital history, preserving and sharing images of weapons and body armor. The gunman’s apparent digital footprint — from the rantings of a white nationalist manifesto to his 8chan message board postings before the murders — was unearthed and, for a time, distributed into far-flung corners of the web. The killer wanted the world’s attention, and by committing an act of mass terror, he was able to get it.It was not the first act of violence to be broadcast in real-time on social media. In 2015, two reporters in Roanoke, Va., were murdered by a gunman who posted the footage on Twitter. Not long after, Periscope, a live streaming app, came under fire after a teenager live-streamed her suicide. Other murders have been broadcast live on Facebook, like the apparently random killing of Robert Godwin in 2017. There have also been numerous recordings of encounters — sometimes fatal — with police. Since the live video tool debuted in late 2015, users have also broadcast rape and child abuse — a 2017 survey by BuzzFeed News found “at least 45 instances of violence” across the platform.And yet the Christchurch shooting was different, in part because of its perpetrator’s apparent familiarity with the darkest corners of the internet. The recording contains numerous references to online and meme culture, including the shooter name-checking a prominent YouTube personality shortly before beginning the attack. The digital trail the shooter left behind appears to depict a white supremacist motivation for the attack. There is much, at this early date, that is unknown, despite what’s been posted online. The 87-page manifesto, for instance, is filled with layers of ironic, self-referential commentary, apparently written to enrage the communities that appear to have helped radicalize the gunman in the first place. It seems that the Christchurch shooter — who by his digital footprint appears to be native to the internet — understands not only the platform dynamics that allow misinformation and divisive content to spread but also the way to sow discord.As terrifying as the violence itself is, so, too, is how well the online community worked in the gunman’s favor. This may be our new reality. Not only has conspiratorial hate spread from the internet to real life; it’s also weaponized to go viral.The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. We’d like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips. And here’s our email: letters@nytimes.com.AdvertisementSupported byThe killing of 50 people in New Zealand last week seems to be the most extreme example of a mass shooter using the internet as part of his arsenal of destruction and hate. We look at how this affected our calculations around how to cover the attack.By Hanna IngberSadly, The Times has covered a lot of shootings. But the killing of 50 people at mosques in Christchurch, New Zealand, on Friday by a gunman intent on using the tools of the internet as weapons in his fight raised a number of new issues for our newsroom.In the aftermath of the attack, we sat down with some of our top editors who make the difficult calls about how to cover the news without inadvertently glorifying a killer or becoming a pawn in his game.Here’s a look at some of the issues our journalists have been sorting through. Please leave additional questions or feedback for them in the comments.The shooter strapped a camera to his forehead to stream a live video on Facebook as he gunned down dozens of people who had gathered to pray. He teased his act on Twitter, announced it on the online message board 8chan and appeared to have posted a 74-page manifesto online.Kevin Roose, a Times columnist who writes about the intersection of technology, business and culture, told Michael Barbaro on The Daily on Monday morning: “It set this shooting up as almost an internet performance. Like it was native to the internet, and it was born out of and aimed into this culture of extremely concentrated internet radicalism.”In many ways, the attack unfolded online just as the gunman seemed to have planned. The video was widely available on sites like Facebook, Twitter and YouTube, until the platforms managed mostly to block it. On message boards, commenters discussed saving the video so it could later be uploaded on other sites if necessary.“There is no doubt in my mind that this guy was very aware of how his video and his manifesto would filter through the internet and get refracted and picked up and analyzed,” Kevin said. “This was, in a way, engineered for internet virality.”The manipulation of technology and use of online social platforms to document the killings, publicize them and try to inspire others to imitate them posed significant ethical challenges for our journalists running the coverage.Michael Slackman, our international editor, called this an extreme corruption of a form of communication that was once promoted and viewed as a means of uniting people and advancing democratic values.“Instead, you have someone who designed a horrific terrorist attack using all of the power of social media and the internet to spread his vile views,” he said. “So for us, it was how do you cover it in that context, how do we understand it and explain it, and how do we avoid becoming the tools of a terrorist?”Our editors often have to decide if we should publish disturbing images or videos from shootings, bombings and war. They must weigh an image’s news value and our mission to inform the public about the horrors of an attack against how intrusive the image is and how upsetting it could be for our readers or those affected by the tragedy to see it.“We have to have a real reason for showing these things,” said Mark Scheffler, our deputy editor of video. The video or images must be used “to tell a broader story, not just to say, ‘Here’s video of this guy’s shooting spree.’”[Read about a recent debate among our readers and in our newsroom over whether we should have published graphic photographs after a deadly attack in Nairobi.]This case was different because the person who shot the video was not an eyewitness, journalist or member of law enforcement. It was the attacker himself.“Here, the fact that the video was made by the killer added a whole other dimension to it,” said Phil Corbett, our associate managing editor for standards. “You have this additional factor of, Are you going to help publicize this terrorist video that the killer has made himself, obviously with the intent of it being seen as widely as possible? That made all of us even more cautious and wary about whether we would use any images.”Ultimately our editors decided not to run any of the gunman’s video of the attack or even link to it.Even if an assailant has clear goals of wanting video of his attack publicized — and knows how to use the internet to make his massacre go viral — the material itself might have news value. While we don’t want to be part of a gunman’s propaganda effort, our primary goal remains providing newsworthy information to our readers.However, as Phil explained, our journalists must still take into consideration the source of the video and the motivations of the gunman who produced it so that we do not inadvertently become part of the story.“Terrorists want publicity and recognition,” he said. “If we decide to publish it, even if for legitimate journalistic reasons, we have to recognize that to some degree our actions are part of the whole event, and that is an uncomfortable position for us to be in.”He added that news organizations like The Times are particularly sensitive to this because we have been closely following how platforms like Facebook have been misused to spread hateful campaigns and disrupt elections.“We don’t want to essentially be in the same situation,” he said.Another unusual aspect of this attack was that the manifesto attributed to the accused killer and published on message boards was not simply a disturbing dissertation on his political ideology and motivations, such as ones released by other mass killers. In this situation, the gunman appears to have intentionally filled it with language to troll and confuse the news media.“It was full of deception and misdirection,” Michael said. “It was written in a way to trick and make fun of the public and the press.”The Times initially decided to handle the manifesto by assigning two reporters to annotate sections of it. After closely reading the material, however, the reporters realized they couldn’t annotate it without playing into the hands of the attacker. Instead, our international correspondent Patrick Kingsley wrote an article that sought to answer the questions we had hoped the manifesto would address: What was the gunman thinking, and why did he open fire at two mosques?In the end, we neither linked to nor annotated the manifesto.After school shootings in the United States and other mass attacks, we increasingly hear from readers who ask that we not publish the name or photo of the suspect because they worry that doing so glorifies assailants and inspires additional attacks.After we published news on Tuesday that the prime minister of New Zealand, Jacinda Ardern, would not use the suspect’s name in order not to give him notoriety, readers questioned why in that very article The Times ran the man’s name.“The media holds responsibility to tell the truth but also not sensationalize and in this case, as muted as it might seem, you are complicit,” a commenter wrote on our site.The Times profiles attackers, and names them, after such incidents in order to give our readers a better understanding of what happened and why.“Our feeling has always been that who these people are is part of the news,” Matt Purdy, a deputy managing editor, said on Friday, as The Times sought to confirm the gunman’s identity. “It’s not more important than the lives that are lost, by any means, but who these people are could explain to people what their interests and experiences are. In a very depressing way, it is important. It’s news.”As school shootings and other such attacks have become more common, we have also tried to balance our need to provide information with the legitimate concerns of not inspiring new attacks or giving notoriety to a killer who is seeking just that.In the case of the New Zealand attack, The Times decided to publish the suspect’s name but made sure to use it responsibly. We have not put it in headlines and do not cite it gratuitously.We have handled a photograph of the gunman in the same way. We ran it as a small image inside the newspaper; we did not put it on our home page or front page.“We are trying to hit that right balance of informing readers, helping readers understand who this person was, and yet not providing the notoriety that might then inspire the next person,” Phil said.The attack in New Zealand is unlikely to be the last in which a gunman uses the internet to try to control the narrative. Kevin, our technology columnist, says that journalists need to be aware of these tactics and handle material posted online with extreme caution.“I think we need to understand — and we’re starting to, I think — that media manipulation is often a key part of how violent extremists plan their activities,” he explained.“They see us as easy marks, and they know that most journalists don’t know what 8chan is, let alone understand the ideological terrain there,” he said. “So we need to be exceedingly careful with these things, and not just repeat their claims at face value.”AdvertisementSupported byBy The Associated PressWELLINGTON, New Zealand — When the gunman began to attack the Al Noor mosque, Ahmed Alayedy scrambled to get to the nearest emergency exit. He was the first one there."I tried to open the door," he said. "But it doesn't open."Alayedy and other survivors of the March 15 mosque attacks in New Zealand have described to The Associated Press a scene of confusion and terror at the door on one side of the main prayer room, in the first accounts of the role the door played.Alayedy said so many people began crushing him against the door that some of his ribs cracked. Another survivor, Khaled Alnobani, says he thinks as many as 17 people may have died trying to get out through the door.Investigators have likely examined a new electric locking system installed on the door in the days before the attack. The mosque says an electrician disabled that system the day before the attack, although some of those who escaped question whether that was the case. What is clear is that nobody managed to open the door that afternoon.With the gunman in the middle of the room, the door represented the only escape route for those on one side of him, at least until people started smashing windows to get out.Fifty people were slaughtered by the gunman at two Christchurch mosques during the attack, including 42 who died at Al Noor. Alayedy and others say that if the door had been wide open like it typically was during Friday prayers, many more people might have escaped.Shagaf Khan, the president of the Muslim Association of Canterbury which oversees the mosque, said the door was closed and latched much like the front door of a house. He said it wasn't locked, although worshippers may have believed it was in the confusion.He said an electrician had tested the new electric locking system on Thursday, and then disengaged it for Friday prayers. He said that to open the door, somebody needed to turn a lever. It was just happenstance, and perhaps the cool weather that day, he said, which meant the door wasn't wide open as usual."On any other Friday, the door would be open," he said. "But on this Friday, nobody opened that door."He said he agreed that more people would have escaped if the door had been open."If it had been completely open, it would have been easy for people to get out," he said. "But nobody was prepared for this. We were prepared for an emergency like a fire or an earthquake, and people would still have time to get out. This is something totally different. You don't put this in your emergency plan."Alayedy said that in the confusion, he can't be sure if he simply failed to turn the lever properly or if something else stopped the door from opening.Alnobani, said he, too, tried to open the door and it didn't work, and he's familiar with the lever. He said he believes the door was electronically locked. Simply pushing a button next to the door would have unlocked it, he said, but nobody knew about the new system.Khan said the mosque was in compliance with regulations, which require emergency exits to be clear from objects, easily accessible, and unlocked.Police said the scene examination is part of their investigation and they will not be commenting while the investigation is ongoing.Robert Wright, the Christchurch City Council head of building consents, said in an email the mosque was in compliance with the Building Act at the time of the attacks and had a valid certificate known as a "Building Warrant of Fitness."Alayedy, 30, said that on the day of the attack, he'd been listening to a holy speech by imam Gamal Fouda when he heard six or seven shots. He thought it was an electrical fault at first but then heard screaming and ran for the door."All the brothers come in behind each other, on top of each other," he said.Because he couldn't open the door, he said, he tried punching the hexagonal piece of glass in the lower part of the door. When that didn't work, he drove his knee through it, shattering the glass, and then kicked it out. He crawled through and ran for safety.Alayedy, a chef from Jordan who moved to New Zealand nine years ago, said he thought about his family back at their house as he ran. His pregnant wife, his 3-year-old son, and the baby daughter they hope to have within the next couple of weeks.Behind the mosque, Alayedy said, he began helping people to escape over a fence but couldn't get over it himself because of his injured ribs.Another survivor provided a second escape route near the door by diving through a window with his arm wrapped around his eyes. Tarik Chenafa said he heard a tat-tat-tat-tat-tat and knew right away it was a semi-automatic weapon from his two years of compulsory military training in the Algerian army."I know someone is coming to kill us," he said.Alnobani said that when he first came to the mosque that Friday, he'd noticed the side door was shut and considered opening it but then saw there were some older worshippers. It was a little cold and windy outside, he figured, so he left it alone.Alnobani said he also managed to crawl through the door's smashed glass and run. He returned to help rescue a young boy whose father was shoving him through the opening, he said, and then helped the father as well."I tried to save the child, and I thought maybe I lose my life," he said. "But I am just alone," he said, adding "He had more than me to lose."When he tried to help a third person through the opening, Alnobani said, that man was shot. The gunman walked out of the mosque to get another gun from his car, Alnobani said, and began shooting at him when he returned. But he managed to escape, and then drove two injured people to the hospital.The gunman acted quickly, mowing down people on both sides of the mosque. On the side opposite from the closed door, some worshippers were able to escape, but the gunman also killed many others as they tried to leave."And he was actually standing behind them, and he was shooting and shooting and shooting and shooting," Fouda, the imam, told the AP after the attack. "Tragedy. Tragedy."Brenton Tarrant, a 28-year-old Australian, has been charged with murder in the attack. His next court appearance is scheduled for April 5.AdvertisementSupported byBy Charlotte Graham-McLay, Austin Ramzy and Daniel VictorWELLINGTON, New Zealand — At least 49 people were killed at two mosques in Christchurch, New Zealand, on Friday, in a horrific and methodical afternoon slaughter, part of which was broadcast live on the internet after the publication of a white supremacist manifesto online.The massacre, which Jacinda Ardern, New Zealand’s prime minister, condemned as a terrorist attack and called “an extraordinary and unprecedented act of violence,” interrupted a day of prayer for a small immigrant community in the nation’s third-largest city and shook a country with little history of mass shooting.Harrowing first-person footage, apparently from a camera worn by a gunman as he attacked the Al Noor Mosque in the center of the city, was streamed on Facebook — a grim milestone in the evolution of terrorism that raised questions about how tech companies can block extremists from using social media to spread hate and inspire violence.[Follow our live briefing here.]Facebook said it quickly shut down the account, but a 17-minute video showing a man dressed in black shooting at fleeing worshipers and into piles of bodies with a semiautomatic rifle circulated widely online. In addition to those killed, at least 48 people were being treated for gunshot wounds, including young children, the authorities said.The police said a man in his late 20s was arrested and charged with murder but declined to identify him. The police also said they seized several weapons and found two explosive devices on a vehicle.“This is and will be one of New Zealand’s darkest days,” Ms. Ardern said at a news conference.Schools in the downtown area were locked down for hours after the attacks as the police tried to determine whether the gunman acted alone. The authorities urged residents to stay indoors, asked mosques to close and cleared nearby Cathedral Square, where people had gathered as part of worldwide protests to demand action on climate change.New Zealand’s police commissioner, Mike Bush, said three other individuals found near the scene with weapons were also taken into custody, though investigators later said that one probably had nothing to do with the attacks.The shootings were first reported at about 1:40 p.m., around the time of the midday Friday prayer, when the Al Noor Mosque and the Linwood Mosque, about three miles east, would be most busy. The manifesto had appeared online minutes earlier.The document named both mosques, and links to it were posted on Twitter and 8chan, an online forum known for hosting message boards with extremist right-wing discussions. The 8chan post included a link to what appeared to be the gunman’s Facebook page, where he said he would soon broadcast live video of the attack.But it was not immediately clear whether the name on the page was that of the suspect, and the authorities declined to comment.Ms. Ardern said that many of the victims were most likely migrants to New Zealand or refugees.“Christchurch was the home of these victims,” she said. “For many this may not have been the place they were born. For many, New Zealand was their choice, the place that they chose to come to and committed themselves to, the place they chose to raise their families.”She added that New Zealand was likely targeted “because we represent diversity, kindness, compassion, a home for those who share our values, refuge for those who need it.”Nasreen Hanif, a spokeswoman for the Islamic Women’s Council of New Zealand, said people were anxious for updates and were worried that friends or family members were among the dead.“Nobody’s answering their phones,” she said. “We don’t know if they’re at the hospital or out of reach. Some have posted that they are safe, but others have not.”Ms. Hanif said the two mosques in Christchurch had asked for help from Muslims across the country to arrange the 49 funerals they would need to plan.Historians say Muslims have lived in New Zealand for more than 150 years, but the population has grown with immigration from war-torn countries like Iraq and Afghanistan in the 1990s and 2000s. In a country of nearly five million people, though, only about 46,000 identified as Muslim in the 2013 census.The video of the attack, which appeared to be recorded on a helmet camera, showed the gunman driving to the mosque and then opening fire even before he entered the building. For nearly two minutes, he shoots at fleeing worshipers before he runs back to his car and swaps weapons.He then is seen re-entering the mosque and opening fire again, methodically moving from room to room and shooting into piles of bodies slumped on the green carpets. Several victims can be seen in the footage, many lying on top of one another motionless in a corner of the room.After another few minutes, the gunman leaves again, gets in his vehicle and drives away, pausing occasionally to fire at pedestrians while talking to himself throughout.“There wasn’t even time to aim, there was so many targets,” he says at one point.The police in New Zealand said they were working to remove the video from the internet and urged people not to share it.A live video posted to social media appeared to show the attack at Al Noor Mosque, where 42 people were killed. The clip appeared to have been taken from a camera worn by a gunman.3 The gunman’s video shows him driving away six minutes after the first shot.1 The gunman parked inthe alley next to the mosque,according to the live video.Al NoorMosqueDeans Ave.2 He openedfire at around1:40 p.m.Re-entered mosque and began firingResumed firingoutside the mosqueShot abystanderFirst shot firedParkedExited mosqueGot new gun fromparked carExitedmosqueDroveaway1 min.later234563 The gunman’s video shows him driving away six minutes after the first shot.1 The gunman parked inthe alley next to the mosque,according to the live video.SouthHagleyParkAl NoorMosqueDeans Ave.2 He opened fire ataround 1:40 p.m.Re-enteredmosque andbegan firingResumed firingoutside the mosqueShot abystanderFirst shot firedParkedExited mosqueGot a new gunfrom the parked carLeft mosqueDroveaway1 minute later234563 The gunman’s video shows him driving away six minutes after the first shot.1 The gunman parked inthe alley next to the mosque,according to the live video.Al NoorMosqueDeans Ave.South Hagley Park2 He opened fire ataround 1:40 p.m.Resumed firingoutside the mosqueRe-entered mosqueand began firingShot abystanderFirst shot firedParkedExited mosqueGot a new gunfrom the parked carLeft mosqueDroveaway1 minute later23456By Jin Wu and Allison McCann | Note: Times are local time.Facebook said it was alerted by the police shortly after the livestream started. “We quickly removed both the shooter’s Facebook and Instagram accounts and the video,” Mia Garlick, a Facebook representative, said in a statement. “We’re also removing any praise or support for the crime and the shooter or shooters as soon as we’re aware.”Before the shooting began, the gunman made a winking reference to an internet meme, telling viewers to “subscribe to PewDiePie,” a reference to the Swedish YouTube star Felix Kjellberg. Mr. Kjellberg, who has been criticized for anti-Semitism over skits that he called satirical, said on Twitter that he felt “absolutely sickened” that the gunman had mentioned him.The video and Twitter posts showed weapons covered in the names of past military generals and men who have recently carried out mass shootings.The author of the manifesto identifies himself as a 28-year-old man born in Australia. He listed his white nationalist heroes, described his animosity toward Muslims and immigrants, and said he chose to use guns in the attacks to stir discord in the United States around the Second Amendment.Aman Singh, 26, who works at a convenience store close to the Al Noor Mosque, said he hid after hearing gunshots and seeing people stream past, bloody and crying.“My really good friend goes there,” he said, adding that he had not been able to confirm the friend’s whereabouts.Mohammad Isam, a Bangladeshi journalist, posted a video of members of Bangladesh’s national cricket team who he said escaped the attack.Christchurch, with about 388,000 residents, is the biggest city on New Zealand’s South Island, hugging the Pacific Ocean coast.There hasn’t been a mass shooting in New Zealand since 1990, when a man killed 13 people, including two 6-year-olds, after a dispute with his neighbor in the seaside town of Aramoana.That shooting led to tightened gun laws, including restrictions on “military style semiautomatic weapons.”Gun owners must be licensed, a process that includes a review of criminal activity and mental health, attendance at a safety program, an explanation of how the gun would be used, a residence visit to ensure secure storage, and testimonials from relatives and friends.Murders are rare in New Zealand, and gun homicides even rarer. There were 35 murders countrywide in 2017. Since 2007, gun homicides have been in the single digits each year except 2009, when there were 11.But there are plenty of guns. There were 1.2 million registered firearms in a country of 4.6 million people in 2017, according to the Small Arms Survey, a Swiss nonprofit.Charlotte Graham-McLay reported from Wellington, New Zealand, and Austin Ramzy and Daniel Victor from Hong Kong. Damien Cave contributed reporting from Sydney, and Megan Specia and Jason Bailey from New York.Want more coverage from Australia and New Zealand? Sign up for the weekly Australia Letter, start your day with your local Morning Briefing and join us in our Facebook group.OpinionCharlie WarzelAdvertisementSupported byBy Niraj ChokshiOne of YouTube’s biggest celebrities found himself entangled early Friday in news coverage of the mass shooting at two mosques in New Zealand.A gunman who had broadcast part of the attack that left at least 49 people dead urged those watching to “subscribe to PewDiePie,” referring to the alias used by Felix Kjellberg, a Swede whose channel has long dominated YouTube and courted controversy along the way.Mr. Kjellberg was quick to distance himself from the shooting.“I feel absolutely sickened having my name uttered by this person,” he said on Twitter. “My heart and thoughts go out to the victims, families and everyone affected by this tragedy.”Mr. Kjellberg is no stranger to controversy. In recent years, he has been embraced by some on the far right and faced criticism for his use of anti-Semitic imagery and racist and sexist language. Here is a closer look at PewDiePie and the New Zealand gunman’s words.As PewDiePie, Mr. Kjellberg has amassed a following of 89 million YouTube subscribers over the past decade with videos that feature a mix of comedic rants, commentary and video game narration.Though edited, the videos carry an intimate, unguarded aesthetic that has helped Mr. Kjellberg remain relevant and sought after by advertisers. According to Forbes, a sponsored video with PewDiePie can cost up to $450,000. Mr. Kjellberg earned $15.5 million last year.[Sign up for the Morning Briefing newsletter for a look at what you need to know to begin your day.]There’s more to the gunman’s words — “subscribe to PewDiePie” — than meets the eye.Kevin Roose, a columnist for The New York Times, wrote on Friday that the message may have served two purposes: to inflame political tensions and to serve as a knowing nod to those who might be watching the gunman’s actions with approval.To achieve those ends, the gunman, who has not been officially identified, used a meme born out of a competition for YouTube dominance.Last year, T-Series, a music label and film production company based in India, emerged as a threat to PewDiePie’s top-ranked status on YouTube.In response, Mr. Kjellberg jokingly rallied his fans to stave off T-Series, even going so far as to make a comedic diss track to play up the competition. Other YouTubers got in on the fight, too, with some buying radio and display advertising.As with many other oft-repeated phrases online, “subscribe to PewDiePie” became a symbol, a meme, unto itself.In 2017, Disney severed ties with Mr. Kjellberg and YouTube distanced itself from him after The Wall Street Journal identified at least nine of his videos that featured anti-Semitic gestures and imagery.In one, a pair of men hired by Mr. Kjellberg unfurled a sign that read “Death to All Jews” and then laughed and danced. In another, he wears a brown military uniform, nodding along to archival footage of Hitler delivering a speech.Some of the videos were removed and Mr. Kjellberg described the segments as jokes, saying in a statement that he was “in no way supporting any kind of hateful attitudes” and that “I understand that these jokes were ultimately offensive.”Despite those comments, members of the far-right embraced what Mr. Kjellberg had done.A post on The Daily Stormer, a neo-Nazi website, noted that the videos raised questions about Mr. Kjellberg’s own views, but concluded that they didn’t matter: “The effect is the same; it normalizes Nazism, and marginalizes our enemies.”In an article last year, Paul MacInnes, who writes on sports and popular culture for The Guardian, faulted mainstream publications for largely ignoring Mr. Kjellberg.“To call him an alt-right agitator would perhaps be unfair as he has never publicly identified with the proto-fascist movement,” Mr. MacInnes wrote. “But he shares much of their culture and amplifies it across the world. People should pay PewDiePie more attention.”Later in 2017, Mr. Kjellberg used a racial slur during a video game livestream, which he later described as “extremely immature and stupid.”“I said the worst word I could possibly think of, and it just sort of slipped out and I’m not going to make any excuse as to why,” he said in a video apologizing for his use of the word.Last year, Mr. Kjellberg got into a feud with Natalia Mogollon, another online personality famous on Twitch, where she goes by the alias Alinity Divine and narrates livestreams of video games.In a video testing out an eye-tracking device, Mr. Kjellberg jokingly referred to women in one of the videos he watched, including Ms. Mogollon, as “stupid Twitch thots,” a derogatory term.Ms. Mogollon took offense. In an ensuing back-and-forth, Mr. Kjellberg suggested that she intentionally dresses provocatively on her stream.“Oh, you’re just playing games with the shortest skirt ever, that’s our fault for looking at it in any sexual way, right?” he said.A few months later, he was criticized as insensitive for sharing a meme that made light of the singer Demi Lovato’s struggle with drugs.AdvertisementSupported byBy The Associated PressWASHINGTON — The Supreme Court on Thursday declined to stop the Trump administration from enforcing its ban on bump stock devices, which allow semi-automatic weapons to fire like machine guns.The ban took effect Tuesday. Gun rights groups asked the court Monday to keep the government from enforcing the ban for now. Chief Justice John Roberts declined one request for the court to get involved on Tuesday and a second request was declined by the court on Thursday. That was the only remaining request. The justices didn't say anything in declining it.The administration's ban puts it in the unusual position of arguing against gun rights groups. President Donald Trump said last year that the government would move to ban bump stocks. The action followed a 2017 shooting in Las Vegas in which a gunman attached bump stocks to assault-style rifles he used to shoot concertgoers from his hotel room. By using the devices, which allow shots to be fired more rapidly, the gunman was able to fire more than 1,000 rounds in 11 minutes. Fifty-eight people were killed and hundreds were injured.The Trump administration's move was an about-face for the federal Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives. In 2010, under the Obama administration, the ATF found that the devices were legal. But under the Trump administration, officials revisited that determination and found it incorrect. The revised regulation, which went into effect Tuesday, requires owners either to destroy their bump stocks or surrender them. The government estimates hundreds of thousands of the devices have been sold.AdvertisementSupported byAdvertisementSupported byBy Damien Cave and Jamie TarabayCHRISTCHURCH, New Zealand — The families drifted from the mosques to the hospital, their emotions battered, their eyes bloodshot.More than a day had passed since the attacks on Friday that killed 50 people at two mosques in Christchurch, and many still did not know the fate of loved ones they believed were at prayer when the gunman arrived and started firing.Akhtar Khokhar, who arrived two months ago from India to visit her son, had come to the hospital for answers.“This is my husband,” she said, holding up a photo before an imam who was at Christchurch Hospital to try to help family members. He shook his head with uncertainty.Others faced similar frustrations, with no firm answers about who had died.“This is the best they can do?” asked Zuhair Darwish, as his brother’s wife in Jordan kept calling, desperate, wanting to know whether to plan a funeral.Hours before, the gunman who had inflicted all this pain was charged with one count of murder, with dozens more expected.Prime Minister Jacinda Ardern, who flew to Christchurch to visit with families, vowed that “our gun laws will change — now is the time.” Minutes before the shooting began on Friday, Ms. Ardern was emailed a copy of the racist manifesto purported to be from the gunman.[Read live updates here from New York Times journalists in Christchurch.]On Saturday evening, Mr. Darwish, like many others, still could not believe where the horror had landed him: in a hospital cafeteria, renamed a “relatives room,” that was crowded with grief and hot with anger.Dozens of family members — teenagers in T-shirts, grandmothers in head scarves, bearded men in jeans — were there, squeezed together and pressing for information from overwhelmed officials.“It’s illegal to hide the names from us!” Mr. Darwish shouted at a police official, who was fielding questions while standing on a chair at the back of the room, where few could hear him. “You have to provide them!”This was not where they belonged, many of the survivors said.Bloodshed, terrorism and fear were what some of them had left behind, fleeing countries like Pakistan, Afghanistan and Somalia. Others were born here, used to relative quiet and peace. But in the land of emerald green rugby pitches, hatred found them all anyway.[Go here to read how the attack unfolded on Friday.]They responded with the full range of human emotion. Walking between the mosques and the hospital revealed countless examples of tears and outrage. There was debilitating sadness. There was confusion, but also the kind of love you see in hugs that hold tight and bring tears without concern for who is looking.“This is a test,” said Zia Aiyaz, 32, an engineer originally from Afghanistan who flew to Christchurch from Hamilton, New Zealand, to help the families of those who were killed or wounded. “God is testing us — testing the families and us, and we’re here to help.”Islam first arrived in Christchurch in 1854, with a family from India, local history says. Its roots strengthened in the 1970s with the arrival of Afghan immigrants, and again in the ’90s with new arrivals from other countries.The Muslim community is neither highly visible nor invisible here in Christchurch, a pleasant city of 350,000 near the South Island’s Pacific Coast. Mostly Sunni, they are part of a small but growing group of around 46,000 Muslims overall in a country of 4.6 million. In Christchurch, their ranks include students at local universities, taxi drivers, professionals, nurses — and imams like Lateef Alabi.A leader at the Linwood Mosque, he is originally from Nigeria but is also close to finishing a Ph.D in Malaysia. He has been in New Zealand for three years.On Saturday, he moved briskly between all the areas where families had gathered, having changed into a clean, gray dishdasha robe. His garment from the day before had been stained with blood.He often found that he had little to offer those in need.When Ms. Khokhar found him, and told him her husband had been at Al Noor Mosque, he shook his head and just said, “Oh no.” That was where 41 people had been killed.Many of those who attended prayers on Friday were regulars, for whom Islamic practice was woven into engaged lives in the city.Yasir Amin Nasr, 35, who moved from Lahore, Pakistan, five years ago, now works for the Christchurch City Council. He and his father, Muhammad Amin Nasr, had parked their car up the road from Al Noor Mosque on Friday and were walking toward the building when they first heard gunfire.After another burst of gunshots, he pleaded with his father to run away, and quickly. But it was too late.“Two, three seconds, he was just in front of us, pointing the gun at us,” Mr. Nasr said, trying to show a distance of some eight yards separating them from the gunman.“I saw him. He looked at us,” Mr. Nasr said. “He was driving. He stopped the car when he spotted us and he got his gun.”Mr. Nasr said the gunman aimed the weapon across the driver’s side of the car, through the passenger window toward him and his father and began firing.His father was hit twice. On Saturday night, he was in critical condition in Christchurch Hospital.His father, a regular traveler to New Zealand, had arrived three weeks ago for this latest visit and had planned to stay for longer than usual.“He likes it here,” Mr. Nasr said. “He said he would stay for at least one year because of peace, because here he has nothing to worry about, he can just relax.”More might have died at the Linwood Mosque but for the selfless actions of Abdul Aziz, 48, who was praying there with his four sons when he heard gunshots.Rather than fleeing, he ran toward the sound and grabbed the first thing he could find — a credit card machine — and tossed it at the attacker. He then tried to draw the gunman’s attention to himself, and away from other worshipers, by weaving through cars in the parking lot.Mr. Alabi told The Associated Press he believed the death toll would have been far higher without Mr. Aziz’s actions.Mr. Aziz, originally from Afghanistan, said he saw the attacker drop one of his guns and managed to grab it. But when he pulled the trigger, the gun was empty. When the gunman went to his car, presumably to grab more ammunition, Mr. Aziz said he threw the gun at the assailant’s windshield, shattering the glass. The assailant sped away.Perhaps because of where the shooting took place — a country where there are fewer than a dozen murders in some years — many of the survivors found themselves reaching back in time, using words like peace and quiet, calm and safety.Mr. Darwish, 40, said that was how he persuaded his brother, Kamel, to move to New Zealand from Jordan: “I told him it’s the safest country in the world and the best place to raise kids.”“He was here for six months,” he added. “He was going to bring his wife in a month.”Instead, Kamel was missing and presumed dead.Inside the hospital’s relatives room, Mr. Darwish could not contain his frustration. Several relatives had to walk him outside to help him calm down when a local imam he didn’t know stood up and tried to explain that they were trying to wait until all the names had been confirmed and all the bodies identified before sharing information with the group.“We want connectivity,” said the imam, Mustafa Farouk. “So everyone gets closure at the same time.”Others in the crowd demanded an alternative, something quicker “so we can rest!” shouted one man in a far corner.Mr. Farouk explained that some of the victims were unrecognizable because of their wounds. Another imam reminded them that “it’s not a car accident, it’s an international crime scene,” and that officials had to be careful not to get anything wrong.Still, the crowd pleaded: Let people share photos. Let imams who know some of the dead identify them.For a time, the pain brought division. Then the discord was broken when a man shouted “Allahu akbar!” — God is great — and called for patience.A few minutes later, officials announced that they would not wait for all the bodies to be identified. They acceded to the community’s demands and let people send photos to the police and choose imams to identify those they could.The survivors knew this victory would only bring more pain. But at least they were moving toward a resolution, together and alone.Charlotte Graham-McLay contributed reporting.Want more coverage from Australia and New Zealand? Sign up for the weekly Australia Letter from bureau chief Damien Cave, start your day with your local Morning Briefing and join us in our Facebook group.AdvertisementSupported byBy Richard Pйrez-PeсaThe wounded tried to crawl away or lie still, while others ran or crouched behind the dead, but the gunman kept pulling the trigger.He shot fleeing women and girls, and pumped bullet after bullet into piles of motionless men and boys in a house of worship.The man accused of carrying out the worst mass murder in New Zealand’s modern history, one that left 49 people dead and more than 40 others wounded at two mosques in Christchurch, was identified in court documents on Saturday as Brenton Harrison Tarrant, 28. The suspect, who officials said is an Australian citizen, was charged with one count of murder, and more were expected to come.Three other people were detained by the police, though one was released hours later. An 18-year-old local man was charged with “intent to excite hostility or ill-will,” but court officials would not elaborate.The horror was designed specifically for an era that has married social media and racism — a massacre apparently motivated by white extremist hatred, streamed live on Facebook and calculated to go viral.The shooting represented a staggering corruption of a form of communication, used innocently by millions, that promised to draw people together but has also helped pry them apart into warring camps. It also shattered a veneer of civility and security in one of the safest and most highly developed countries in the world.A man at the door to Al Noor mosque on Deans Avenue called out “hello, brother,” just before the approaching killer opened fire with a semiautomatic shotgun. Seconds later, a wounded man, trying to crawl away, was shot again at point-blank range.Within moments, terror and chaos gripped the people gathered at the mosque for Friday Prayer, as they ran, screamed and tried to climb the walls around the building. Parents tried to shield their children, others ducked behind or under parked cars, and at least one nearby resident opened her home to shelter people fleeing the mayhem.The Facebook video, shot from the killer’s helmet-mounted camera, and a 74-page statement that the authorities said was written by the gunman, point to an array of possible role models, from racist mass murderers to Oswald Mosley, the 20th century British fascist.Standard white supremacist and far-right nationalist tropes, like fears of a “white genocide,” are sprinkled throughout the statement. There are also elements of a self-flattering reach for larger meaning: references to centuries-ago battles between Christians and Muslims are scrawled on his guns, and on the video he refers to his slaughter of unarmed people as “the firefight.”But the potential clues in the statement appeared to be as much an exercise in misdirection, provocation and “trolling” as a statement of any ideology, making it hard to separate belief from inside jokes among extremists, deliberate baiting and pointless hate.New safeguards developed by tech companies over the last 18 months were not enough to stop the video and statement from being widely posted, on Facebook, YouTube, Twitter and Instagram. While Facebook and Twitter took down pages thought to be linked to the gunman, the posted content was spread rapidly through other accounts. Some people appeared to be using techniques to evade automated systems that find and delete content.President Trump on Friday described the attack as “a horrible disgraceful thing, horrible act.” But when asked if he saw white nationalism as a rising threat around the world, he said: “I don’t really. I think it’s a small group of people that have very, very serious problems, I guess.”Many Western leaders denounced the attack as an act of terrorism, and made a point of stating their support for Muslims.“Through terror attacks that have taken place on U.K. soil we know only too well the pain that such horrifying attacks can cause,” Prime Minister Theresa May of Britain said. “As New Zealand has stood by us so we stand shoulder to shoulder with them, and with Muslims in New Zealand, here in the U.K. and around the world.”Some leaders of Muslim countries had a more pointed take. On Twitter, President Recep Tayyip Erdogan of Turkey called the attack “the latest example of rising racism and Islamophobia.”Driving his white S.U.V. to the Deans Avenue mosque on Friday afternoon, the gunman played aloud a propaganda song that pays tribute to Radovan Karadzic, the former Bosnian Serb leader who was convicted of genocide and war crimes.Forty-one of the people who died were killed at that mosque. Seven others were killed at the Linwood mosque, about three miles away, and one died at Christchurch Hospital, which lies between the two.New Zealand’s prime minister, Jacinda Ardern, said on Saturday that a total of five firearms, including two semiautomatic weapons, were used in the attacks. New Zealand has fairly lax gun laws, but little gun violence.“Our gun laws will change, now is the time,” Ms. Ardern said, though she did not say what that legislation would look like.Ms. Ardern said the gunman had been planning to kill more people when he was apprehended. “It was absolutely his intention to continue his attack,” she said.Two homemade explosives were found in the suspect’s car, the police have said. The attack put the city of almost 400,000 people on lockdown for hours, as the police searched for more suspects, accomplices or bombs.Ms. Ardern said that while children were among the dead, the victims were “predominantly from the ages of 20 to 60-ish — and a large number of men.”Syed Mazharuddin told the New Zealand Herald that he was in the mosque on Linwood Avenue, and that “there were elderly people sitting there praying and he just started shooting at them.”A live video posted to social media appeared to show the attack at Al Noor Mosque, where 42 people were killed. The clip appeared to have been taken from a camera worn by a gunman.3 The gunman’s video shows him driving away six minutes after the first shot.1 The gunman parked inthe alley next to the mosque,according to the live video.Al NoorMosqueDeans Ave.2 He openedfire at around1:40 p.m.Re-entered mosque and began firingResumed firingoutside the mosqueShot abystanderFirst shot firedParkedExited mosqueGot new gun fromparked carExitedmosqueDroveaway1 min.later234563 The gunman’s video shows him driving away six minutes after the first shot.1 The gunman parked inthe alley next to the mosque,according to the live video.SouthHagleyParkAl NoorMosqueDeans Ave.2 He opened fire ataround 1:40 p.m.Re-enteredmosque andbegan firingResumed firingoutside the mosqueShot abystanderFirst shot firedParkedExited mosqueGot a new gunfrom the parked carLeft mosqueDroveaway1 minute later234563 The gunman’s video shows him driving away six minutes after the first shot.1 The gunman parked inthe alley next to the mosque,according to the live video.Al NoorMosqueDeans Ave.South Hagley Park2 He opened fire ataround 1:40 p.m.Resumed firingoutside the mosqueRe-entered mosqueand began firingShot abystanderFirst shot firedParkedExited mosqueGot a new gunfrom the parked carLeft mosqueDroveaway1 minute later23456By Jin Wu and Allison McCann | Note: Times are local time.Speaking to reporters on Friday, a shaken Mohammad Nazir haltingly tried to describe what he had seen inside the Deans Avenue mosque, where he said there were “lots of people” lying on the blood-soaked green carpet.“I just heard ‘Help! Help!’ ” he said.He ran behind the building and climbed over a wall into a neighboring yard.Mulki Abdiwahab, an 18-year-old university student, was with her mother in the women’s prayer room at the Deans Avenue mosque when the gunfire began.“I’ve never heard a gunshot before,” she told Radio New Zealand. “I thought at first it was somebody was banging on the window.”“My mom grabbed my hand and then we just ran outside and everyone was in chaos, just running for their lives,” she said.They left behind their shoes, purses and a laptop, and did not stop running until a woman who lives down the street waved them into her house, she said.Later, they learned that her father, who like many victims was in the men’s prayer room, had been wounded.The gunman’s video shows him reloading repeatedly, snapping new ammunition magazines into his assault shotgun. Then he returned to his vehicle, got another gun — a semiautomatic assault rifle — went back into the building and resumed shooting.When he left for good, he fired down the sidewalk in both directions, and down the alleyway where he had parked. He walked up to a wounded woman dressed in black who lay on the pavement crying “help me, help me,” and shot her twice more.He left about six minutes after he had arrived. As he began to drive away, he fired into parked cars with a pump-action shotgun before speeding off.Officials did not make clear whether the Linwood Avenue attack took place before or after the Deans Avenue massacre, or if the same person committed both. The first calls to the police came at about 1:40 p.m.Yama al Nabi was running late to meet his father at the Deans Avenue mosque, when he came on the nightmarish scene of wailing and bleeding people, illuminated by the flashing lights of police cars.He asked survivors about his father, Dawoud Nabi, 65, a native of Afghanistan who had lived in New Zealand since 1977.“Someone said he jumped the fence and said he’s safe,” he told The New York Times. “Then I waited and waited and my daughter called and said he’s dead.”On Saturday morning, his hands shaking, he showed reporters a photo on his phone of his father and his daughter.“Dad was the leader of the Afghan community and welcomed everyone,” he said.He had gone to the courthouse where the accused gunman would appear. “Just want to see his face,” he said.Members of Bangladesh’s national cricket team, who were in Christchurch for a match, were also saved by tardiness, after a news conference delayed their walk to the Deans Avenue mosque.Mohammad Isam, an ESPN reporter covering the team, reported on an ESPN website that at 1:52 he got a terrified call from Tamim Iqbal Khan, one of the Bangladesh cricketers.“There’s shooting here, please save us,” Mr. Khan said, according to Mr. Isam.“I first think that he is playing a prank but he hangs up and calls again — this time, his voice starts to crack,” Mr. Isam wrote. “He says that I should call the police as there’s a shooting going on inside the mosque where they are about to enter.”Mr. Khan wrote on Twitter: “Entire team got saved from active shooters.”Another player, Mushfiqur Rahim, tweeted “we r extremely lucky … never want to see this things happen again … pray for us.”An earlier version of this article transposed the first and second guns used by the suspect in the Al Noor mosque shooting. The first was a semiautomatic shotgun, not a rifle. The second was a semiautomatic rifle, not a shotgun.Reporting was contributed by Jamie Tarabay in Christchurch and Megan Specia in New York.OpinionWajahat AliAdvertisementSupported byBy Matthew Haag and Karen ZraickIn the days after Jazmine Barnes, 7, was fatally shot inside a moving car near a Walmart outside Houston on Sunday morning, the police have released just one concrete clue about her killer: an image of a red pickup truck recorded by a surveillance camera near the scene of the shooting.The authorities believe that the gunman, described as a man in his 30s or 40s with a beard and wearing a hooded sweatshirt, was driving the truck. The Harris County Sheriff’s Office believes the gunman fired at random into the car in which Jazmine was riding with her mother and three sisters, a 6-year-old and two teenagers. A bullet struck Jazmine in the head, her mother said.The police said Wednesday that they still had not identified the gunman. But the case has drawn the attention of national civil rights activists and fueled speculation that the shooting was racially motivated. The gunman is white, the police said, and Jazmine was black.At a news conference on Wednesday afternoon, Harris County Sheriff Ed Gonzalez said officers were pursuing a number of tips they had received, and taking a fresh look at a similar — and still unsolved — shooting that took place nearby in 2017. The department was also increasing patrols amid concerns that the gunman could strike again.“We’re not going to stop until we solve this case,” Sheriff Gonzalez said.Jazmine’s mother, LaPorsha Washington, and her sisters met with Harris County investigators on Wednesday morning to help them create a composite sketch of the gunman, said Lee Merritt, a lawyer for the family. The sheriff’s office released that sketch on Thursday.In another effort to garner the public’s help, Mr. Merritt and Shaun King, a prominent racial justice activist and a columnist at The Intercept, have offered a $100,000 reward for information leading to the gunman’s arrest. The amount raised was a combination of their own money, according to a spokeswoman for Mr. Merritt, and donations they had received.On Thursday, DeAndre Hopkins, a wide receiver on the Houston Texans, said that he would donate his paycheck from the team’s playoff game this weekend to help pay for Jazmine’s funeral. Mr. Hopkins will receive $29,000 for the game, which is determined by the N.F.L.’s current collective bargaining agreement.“When I see Jazmine Barnes’ face, I see my own daughter,” Mr. Hopkins wrote on Twitter.Since the reward was announced, Mr. Merritt said he had received several tips from people who said they had seen the same red pickup truck in the area before Jazmine was killed. One person reported seeing a man in a red pickup truck break into a parked car and steal a gun, Mr. Merritt said.He said he had forwarded those tips to detectives at the Harris County Sheriff’s Office.“We are getting a lot of tips now,” Mr. Merritt said in an interview. “The word is out there.”Sheriff Gonzalez said he could not confirm details of the tips the police were investigating. But he added that the department appreciated the public’s help and would methodically vet all of the information it was receiving.Besides those possible leads, Mr. Merritt said there might be a connection between Jazmine’s killing and the shooting of two people nearby a year and a half earlier. On Aug. 30, 2017, a white man in a pickup truck opened fire with an AR-15-style rifle at a car carrying A’Vonta Williams and his then-girlfriend’s family, according to the sheriff’s office and Mr. Williams’s mother.No one was killed but a bullet traveled through Mr. Williams’s legs, shattering both of them, his mother, Kisshima Williams, said in an interview on Wednesday. Another bullet was lodged in the stomach of his then-girlfriend’s grandmother.After the sheriff’s office faced criticism for not aggressively investigating the shooting, which occurred in the chaotic days after Hurricane Harvey made landfall, the authorities announced a renewed effort to identify the gunman. But no one has been arrested.Sheriff Gonzalez said that investigators were looking into the 2017 case once again “to see if we may have missed anything.” He added that the previous shooting occurred about six miles from the site of the more recent attack, though the victim eventually drove to the area where the more recent one took place.Ms. Williams said that another son read about Jazmine’s killing on Sunday and immediately called her to point out the similarities between the two cases.“It has to be the same person,” Ms. Williams said. “It’s too similar.”She said that A’Vonta, who is now 22, did not want to talk about the shooting but that he also believed the cases were connected.“I talked to him last night, and it’s rough for him because he’s a young man,” she said. “My son was bedridden for four months.”AdvertisementSupported byBy ReutersCANBERRA — Australia will fine social media companies up to 10 percent of their annual global turnover and imprison executives for up to three years if violent content is not removed "expeditiously" under a new law passed by the country's parliament on Thursday.The new law is in response to a lone gunman attack on two mosques in Christchurch on March 15, killing 50 people as they attended Friday prayers.The gunman broadcasted his attack live on Facebook and it was widely shared for over an hour before being removed, a timeframe Australian Prime Minister Scott Morrison described as unacceptable.Australian Brenton Tarrant, 28, a suspected white supremacist, has been charged with one murder following the attack and was remanded without a plea. He is due back in court on April 5, when police said he was likely to face more charges.It is now an offense in Australia for companies, such as Facebook Inc and Alphabet's Google, which owns YouTube, not to remove any videos or photographs that show murder, torture or rape without delay. Companies must also inform Australian police within a "reasonable" timeframe."It is important that we make a very clear statement to social media companies that we expect their behavior to change," Mitch Fifield, Australia's minister for communications and the arts, told reporters in Canberra.Juries will decide whether companies have complied with the timetable."We have zero tolerance for terrorist content on our platforms," said a spokesperson for Google in an emailed statement."We are committed to leading the way in developing new technologies and standards for identifying and removing terrorist content."A spokeswoman for Facebook was not immediately able for comment.Facebook said last week it was exploring restrictions on who can access their live video-streaming service, depending on factors such as previous violations of the site's community standards.Australia's opposition Labor party backed the legislation, but said it will consult with the technology industry over possible amendments if it wins power at an election due in May. Australia's parliament will rise until after the election. The newly elected lawmakers will not sit until at least July.Critics of the legislation said the government moved too quickly, without proper consultation and consideration.AdvertisementSupported byBy ReutersSYDNEY — The Australian man accused of killing 50 Muslim worshippers in gun attacks on two mosques in Christchurch will face 50 murder charges and 39 attempted murder charges, New Zealand police said on Thursday."Other charges are still under consideration," police said in a statement.Australian Brenton Tarrant, 28, a suspected white supremacist, was previously charged with only one murder following the attack and has been remanded without a plea.AdvertisementSupported byBy The Associated PressWELLINGTON, New Zealand — New Zealand lawmakers on Tuesday voted overwhelmingly in favor of new gun restrictions during the first stage of a bill they hope to rush into law by the end of next week.The bill would ban the types of weapons a gunman used to kill 50 people at two mosques last month.The bill was backed by both liberals and conservatives, with only a single lawmaker from the 120 that sit in Parliament voting against it. The vote was the first of three that lawmakers must pass before the bill becomes law.Police Minister Stuart Nash said far too many people have access to dangerous guns and lawmakers were driven by the need to ensure public safety."We are also driven by the memory of 50 men, women and children who were taken from their loved ones on the 15th of March," Nash said. "Their memory is our responsibility. We don't ever want to see an attack like this in our country again. We are compelled to act quickly."Seemingly drawing a distinction with the U.S., where gun possession is constitutionally protected, Nash said that in New Zealand, gun ownership remains a privilege and not a right.Conservative lawmaker David Seymour voted against the bill, saying it was too rushed."Doing it in nine days before politicians go on their Easter break is starting to look more like political theater than public safety," he said.But Seymour was so busy explaining to reporters his reasons for opposing the bill that he missed a procedural vote in which he could have tried to slow its passage.Many New Zealanders were shocked at the firepower the gunman was able to legally obtain and favor the legislative changes.Some are opposed. More than 14,000 have signed a petition filed in Parliament which says the law changes are "unjust" for law-abiding citizens and are being driven by emotions.AdvertisementSupported byBy Damien CaveCHRISTCHURCH, New Zealand — Hoping to limit the spread of hateful ideas attributed to the suspect accused of the Christchurch killings, New Zealand classified his so-called manifesto as “objectionable” on Saturday, making it a crime to possess or distribute it anywhere in the country.“People who have downloaded this document, or printed it, should destroy any copies,” said David Shanks, the chief censor in New Zealand’s Department of Internal Affairs.“There is an important distinction to be made between ‘hate speech,’ which may be rejected by many right-thinking people but which is legal to express, and this type of publication, which is deliberately constructed to inspire further murder and terrorism,” Mr. Shanks said. “It crosses the line.”The ruling is part of a wider strategy by Prime Minister Jacinda Ardern to undermine the attempts by the suspect, Brenton Harrison Tarrant, to gain global notoriety. She has pledged never to utter his name publicly, and to press platforms like Facebook to deny access worldwide to the manifesto, which was published just before the slaughter of 50 people in two mosques, as well as the video the gunman apparently livestreamed of part of the attacks.Prosecutors have also gone after people who shared that video.As of Thursday, at least two people had been charged with sharing the video via social media, under a law that forbids dissemination or possession of material depicting extreme violence and terrorism.Others could face related charges in connection with publicizing the terrorist attack, under a human rights law that forbids incitement of racial disharmony.These cases are possible because while freedom of expression is a legal right in New Zealand, the parameters are more restrictive than the First Amendment guarantees in the United States. And Mr. Shanks, the country’s chief official in charge of determining what is protected speech and what is not, made clear that the gunman’s white nationalist diatribe was off-limits.“It promotes, encourages and justifies acts of murder and terrorist violence against identified groups of people,” Mr. Shanks said. “It identifies specific places for potential attack in New Zealand, and refers to the means by which other types of attack may be carried out. It contains justifications for acts of tremendous cruelty, such as the deliberate killing of children.”AdvertisementSupported byBy ReutersWELLINGTON — New Zealand police deployed specialist armed officers to a suburb in West Auckland on Wednesday morning after responding to reports that a shot may have been fired. "Police are making enquiries ... The Armed Offenders Squad has been deployed to the area as a precaution," a police spokesman told Reuters by phone, adding that major roads in the area had been cordoned off. Local media reported schools and preschools in the area were in lockdown.AdvertisementSupported byBy The Associated PressSEATTLE — Longtime schoolteacher Deborah Judd has grown accustomed to active-shooter drills in her second-grade classroom. She was less prepared to see a gunman in the street on her way home.She became the first to be shot by a man as he opened fire on cars in a Seattle neighborhood, apparently at random, leaving two people dead and wounding a bus driver who was praised for getting the passengers to safety."He walked straight out in the middle of the road and he shot me, then he shot me again," Judd, 56, told reporters from her hospital bed Thursday. "I guess I always thought something like that would happen in school because we talk so much about school shootings."But I never thought I'd be driving home in my car and someone would step out in the street and shoot me," she said.Judd was headed home to suburban Snohomish on Wednesday after a meeting at Laurelhurst Elementary School, "zipping along, I think I was eating Cheez-Its," she said.Then she saw the gunman. He fired into her windshield as she got close and fired again after the car came to a stop on a road that follows a ridge above Lake Washington in residential northeast Seattle.Bullets lodged in her arm, shoulder and lung. Judd said she slumped over the emergency brake of her car and stayed still — wondering why no one was helping her — until the shooting stopped.The gunman next fired into a King County Metro bus, striking the driver, and approached a car that had slowed down and shot again, killing the 50-year-old man behind the wheel and fleeing in his car as officers arrived, authorities said.Police say suspect Tad Michael Norman, 33, then crashed head-on into another vehicle, killing the 70-year-old man driving. Norman was taken into custody after a brief standoff, police said.Investigators offered no information about a potential motive. Norman, who lives near the shooting scene, was jailed on suspicion of homicide, assault and robbery. He was expected to make his first court appearance Friday, and it was not clear if he had obtained a lawyer who could speak on his behalf.Norman did not appear to have any significant criminal history in Washington state. He was a vendor with Microsoft and his contract ended last year, a company representative said.The bus driver, Eric Stark, 53, was shot in the torso but still managed to drive his passengers to safety, authorities said. Seattle Mayor Jenny Durkan said he "saved lives and took action even after being harmed."Stark, recovering in a hospital Thursday, told ABC's "Good Morning America" that "it's what any other driver would be able to do if they were physically able.""I ducked down really quick for some cover, did like a two-second assessment of my injuries and figured, 'Well, I can breathe, I can think, I can see, and I can talk,'" Stark said. "So for me, that was enough to go, 'OK, we're getting out of here. I've gotta get these people out of here.'"None of the passengers aboard the bus got hurt, King County Metro said.John Barrett told Seattle news station KOMO-TV that he was in his garage when he heard what sounded like firecrackers. Barrett went outside and saw a man pointing a gun at people as he walked down a street, "firing at anything just without any regard."AdvertisementtranscriptHosted by Michael Barbaro, produced by Annie Brown, Paige Cowett, Michael Simon Johnson and Jonathan Wolfe, and edited by Lisa TobinOne of the deadliest mass shootings in the country’s history bore the stamp of online extremism.Monday, March 18th, 2019michael barbaroFrom The New York Times, I’m Michael Barbaro. This is “The Daily.” Today: The death toll from a mass shooting targeting Muslims in New Zealand rose from 49 to 50 over the weekend, after officials found another body at the Al Noor Mosque, where most of the deaths occurred. Kevin Roose on why this attack was made by and for the internet. It’s Monday, March 18.archived recording 1Farid, would you mind just telling us one more time of what happened in the mosque?archived recording (farid ahmed)When shooting started, it started from the hallway. So I could hear, so [IMITATING GUNFIRE] Then magazine is finished. Then he refill again and came back again.archived recording 2I saw all the plastering coming down from the wall and the ceiling.archived recording 3O.K.archived recording 4And that was when I knew it was from the gun shot. So immediately —archived recording 5When he was shooting at me — and there’s a fence here. He was shooting at me. I ducked here and I come here. And I find the gun somewhere here and a dead body here as well.archived recording 6I feel now — I repeated the story a lot. But this is a good idea to say that —michael barbaroOver the weekend, through dozens of interviews with survivors, a story began to emerge of what happened on Friday inside the mosques in Christchurch.archived recording 1Was that your regular mosque or were you visiting that mosque?archived recording (farid ahmed)Regular mosque. Yeah.michael barbaroThe shooting began at the Al Noor Mosque, where Farid Ahmed and his wife, Husna, who had moved to New Zealand from Bangladesh, were attending afternoon prayer.archived recording (farid ahmed)The ladies’ room was on the right-hand side. So all the ladies were there. And my wife is always a leading person for ladies. She had a philosophy. She always used to tell me, I don’t want to hold any position. And I want to prove that you don’t need to have any position to help people. She was like a magnet. And exactly the same thing happened. The shooting started. She started instructing several ladies and children to get out. And she was screaming, Come this way, hurry up,” this and that. You know, she was doing all these things. And then she took many children and ladies into a safe garden. Then she was coming back, checking about me, because I was in the wheelchair.archived recordingDo you mind me asking why you’re in a wheelchair?archived recording (farid ahmed)I was run over by a car. He was the drunk driver. And it was 1998 and it happened.archived recordingI’m sorry.archived recording (farid ahmed)It’s O.K.archived recordingSo she went out of the mosque and then she came back in?archived recording (farid ahmed)Yeah. She was coming back. And once she was approaching the gate, then she was shot.archived recordingShe came back into to fetch you?archived recording (farid ahmed)Yes. Yes.michael barbaroFarid learned hours later that Husna was one of the 42 people police say were killed at the mosque.archived recording (farid ahmed)So she was busy with saving lives, you know, forgetting about herself. And that’s what she is. She always has been like this.michael barbaroSix minutes after firing the first shot, and as police raced toward Al Noor Mosque, the shooter drove to a second mosque, the Linwood Mosque, four miles east.damien caveAnd tell me — I’m sorry, what was your name?abdul azizAbdul Aziz.damien caveAnd the mosque that you go to, is it mixed, Pakistani? I mean, that mosque — who was there that day?abdul azizThat mosque, we got from every race, from Malaysia, from Philippines, from Afghanistan, from every sort of country.michael barbaroMy colleague Damien Cave spoke with Abdul Aziz, who was praying at the Linwood Mosque with his four sons when he heard gunshots. Aziz ran toward the shots, grabbing the first thing he could find, a credit card machine, which he flung at the attacker. The shooter dropped a gun, and Aziz picked it up.abdul azizAnd I pick up the gun and I checked that it had no bullets. And I was screaming to the guy, “Come here! I’m here.” I just wanted to put more focus on me than go inside the masjid. But unfortunately he just got himself to the masjid, and I heard more shooting sound. And I see the shooting inside the masjid.michael barbaroMoments later, when the gunman went to his car to retrieve more weapons, Aziz followed him.abdul azizThis guy tried to get more gun from his car. When he see me, I’m chasing with the gun. He sat on his car. And I just got that gun and throw in his window like an arrow and blast his window. And he thought I probably shot him or something. And the guns come back and just, he drives off.michael barbaroAziz used the gun to shatter the gunman’s car window, which many witnesses believe is what prompted him to speed away rather than re-enter the mosque and kill more people.abdul azizAny brother would do the same thing. So if you was there, you would do the same thing.damien caveHave you — can I ask you —michael barbaroMinutes later, video shows the suspect being pulled by police from his car two and a half miles down the road, where two more guns and homemade explosives were also found.archived recording (jacinda ardern)I want to speak specifically about the firearms used in this terrorist act. They were two semi-automatic weapons and two shotguns.michael barbaroOn Sunday, New Zealand’s prime minister, Jacinda Ardern, said that the suspect, an Australian citizen, would be tried in New Zealand, and that her government would meet today to discuss the country’s gun laws.archived recording (jacinda ardern)I can tell you one thing right now. Our gun laws will change.michael barbaroFunerals for all 50 victims are expected to be held in the coming days.archived recording (jacinda ardern)As the police commissioner confirmed this morning, 50 people have been killed and 34 people remain in Christchurch Hospital, 12 of them in the intensive care unit in critical condition. A 4-year-old girl remains in critical condition at Starship Hospital in Auckland.michael barbaroIslamic burial rituals typically require bodies to be buried as soon as possible, and usually within 24 hours. But New Zealand authorities say that the process of identifying the victims and returning them to their families could take several more days.archived recording (jacinda ardern)It is the expectation that all bodies will be returned to families by Wednesday. I want to finish by saying that while the nation grapples with a form of grief and anger that we have not experienced before, we are seeking answers.michael barbaroKevin, I want to talk to you about the moments before this mass shooting began. What do you know about those?kevin rooseWell, what we know comes from a video that was live-streamed on Facebook while this was all happening by the gunman. He taped himself in the car on his way over to the mosque, listening to music, talking. And right before he gets out of the car and goes into the mosque, he pauses and says, “Remember, lads, subscribe to PewDiePie.” And when I heard that, I just, like, I knew, oh, this is something different than we’re used to.michael barbaroWhat do you mean? What is PewDiePie, and why does that reference matter?kevin rooseSo PewDiePie is this really popular YouTube personality. He has the most subscribers of anyone on YouTube. Some people think he’s offensive. Some people really like him. He’s got this whole fan base. And a few months ago, his fans started sort of spamming this phrase, “subscribe to PewDiePie,” in an attempt to kind of keep him from being eclipsed by another account that was going to have more followers than him.michael barbaroO.K.kevin rooseSo it sort of became this competition, and then it became this joke. And now “subscribe to PewDiePie” is just kind of like a thing that people say on certain parts of the internet. It’s just kind of like a signifier, like, I understand the internet, you understand the internet. This is how we’re going to signal to each other that we understand the internet.michael barbaroO.K. And this is what he’s signaling in saying that?kevin rooseYeah. So I have that in my head. And then I see all these other signs that something is weirdly kind of internet-y about all of this. Like, there’s this post on 8chan, which is kind of like a scummy message board that lots of extremists and weirdos go on. And in the post, the gunman links to the Facebook stream before it happens.michael barbaroThe Facebook stream that he will record of the massacre itself.kevin rooseExactly. And then he pastes a bunch of links to copies of his manifesto. He has a 74-page manifesto that he wrote. And some of this stuff was fairly standard hard-right ideology, very fascist, very white nationalist. Muslims are kind of like the primary target for white nationalists around the world, calling them invaders, saying they’re taking over. You know, this is a sort of classic white nationalist trope. And then there was all this kind of meta-humor, saying that he was radicalized by video games, which is another thing that internet extremists love to sort of troll the media with. Like, you know, he posted previews of his gun on Twitter. The whole thing just kind of felt like it just set this shooting up as, like, almost an internet performance, like it was native to the internet, and it was born out of and aimed into this culture of extremely concentrated internet radicalism.michael barbaroBut underneath it all is white nationalism, white supremacy, whatever you want to call it, a kind of racism that has always existed. So why does the internet’s role in this feel especially different to you?kevin rooseI want to make clear that this is not just a tech story, right. There’s a real core of anti-Muslim violence here, Islamophobia, far-right ideology. That’s all very, very important, and we should focus there. But I think there’s this other piece that we really need to start grappling with as a society, which is that there’s an entire generation of people who have been exposed to radical extremist politics online, who have been fed a steady diet of this stuff. It’s transformed by the tools that the internet provides. So I’ve talked to a lot of white nationalists, unfortunately. And when I asked them how they got into this, a lot of them will say, I found a couple of videos on YouTube. And then I found some more videos on YouTube, and it kind of started opening my eyes to this ideology. And pretty soon, you’re a white nationalist. And that’s different from, historically, how extremism has been born. I mean —michael barbaroWhat do you mean?kevin rooseYou know, if you go to the library and you take out a book about World War II, right as you’re about to finish it, the librarian doesn’t say, here, here’s a copy of “Mein Kampf.” You might like this. There’s not this kind of algorithmic nudge toward the extremes that really exists on social media and has a demonstrated effect on people.michael barbaroWalk me through this algorithmic nudge. I want to make sure I understand what you’re referring to.kevin rooseThis is pretty specific to YouTube, but that’s where a lot of this stuff happens. So on YouTube there’s this recommendations bar. And after a video plays, another one follows it. And historically, the way that this algorithm that chose which video came next worked is it would try to keep you on the site for as long as possible, try to maximize the number of videos you watch, the amount of time you spent, which would maximize the ad revenue. Right. It would maximize lots of things. And so it turned out that what kept people on the site for longer and longer periods of time was gradually moving them toward more extreme content. You start at a video about spaceships, and you’d end on something that was questioning whether the moon landing was a hoax. Or you’d start at a video about some piece of U.S. history and, you know, five videos later you’re at kind of a 9/11 conspiracy theory video. Just these kind of gradual tugs toward the stuff that the algorithm decides is going to keep you hooked. And in a lot of cases, that means making it a little more extreme.michael barbaroAnd what’s the white nationalist version of this nudge?kevin rooseThere’s a ton of white nationalism on YouTube. YouTube, from the conversations I’ve had with people in this movement, is sort of central to how these ideas spread. Like, you start watching some videos about politics. Maybe they’re about Trump. Then you start watching some videos by sort of more fringey, kind of far-right characters, and all of a sudden you are watching someone’s video who is espousing open white nationalism. And you’re not exactly sure how you got there, but you keep watching. And for some percentage of people, you internalize that.michael barbaroSo it’s a kind of computer-driven on-ramp or onboarding.kevin rooseYeah. And this has been studied. Like, this is a well-documented phenomenon, and YouTube has done some things to try to fix the algorithm and make it so that it’s not sending you down these rabbit holes. But it’s still a pretty observable effect.michael barbaroAnd what’s your understanding of why these platforms didn’t act years ago to police, to delete these hate-filled videos, this content that through these algorithmic nudges you described directs people further and further towards extremism?kevin rooseThey had no reason to. I mean, they were making a lot of money. They saw their responsibility as providing a platform for free speech. They were very hesitant to kind of seem like they were censoring certain political views. They were committed to free speech. And I think that’s kind of the original sin that’s baked into all of this. It’s like, part of how this was born is this idea that we just provide the platform, and if people signal to us that they like something, we’ll show them more of it. And maybe we’ll show them something that pushes the envelope a little bit more. And we’re not optimizing for truth. We’re not optimizing for things that we think are healthy for people. We’re just giving them what they want. And they’re trying to change that now, some of them. There’s a reckoning now where these platforms have come to understand that this is the role that they’ve played and that they’re trying to correct it. But there’s a lot of people who have already been sucked up into this world, who have been radicalized, and who may not be coming back. It’s going to be very, very tricky to slow the thing that has been set into motion. And I don’t even know if it’s possible.michael barbaroAt this point.kevin rooseYeah. These platforms played a pivotal role, have played, are playing a pivotal role in how these extremist groups gather momentum and share their ideas and coalesce into real movements and grow. And, like, that’s the part that I don’t think they’ve completely reckoned with, and I don’t think we’ve completely reckoned with. I think we’re still sort of coming to terms with the fact that there’s this pipeline for extremism. And we know how it runs. We know where it happens. We know who’s involved. And we know that sometimes it has these devastating, tragic consequences. What I’ve been thinking is just how inevitable this feels.michael barbaroWhat do you mean?kevin rooseI’ve been watching these people in these kind of dark corners of the internet multiplying and hardening and becoming more extreme, and, like, it was inevitable. This is the nightmare. Right? This is the worst possible version of something that could happen and be broadcast on the internet. And it’s not getting better. And it’s going to be with us for a long time.michael barbaroBut it also strikes me that in a way, and in a pretty awful way, this gunman and the way he has approached this massacre is kind of reflecting back how the internet functions. Because I’m thinking about him making a video of this attack, which, in a sense, means he’s making content that feeds that loop that we’re discussing, perhaps feeds this algorithm that possibly fed him — that he’s basically putting something back into the system.kevin rooseYeah. And I saw this happening on these platforms, like, in real time. So —michael barbaroYou mean on Friday?kevin rooseYeah. So if you went onto 8chan, which is the website where all the stuff was posted, the comments below this post were all about, let’s save these videos so that we can re-upload them somewhere else —michael barbaroWow.kevin roose— in case 8chan gets taken down. Let’s spread this. Let’s seed this all over the internet. I mean, there’s no doubt in my mind that this guy was very aware of how his video and his manifesto would kind of filter through the internet and get refracted and picked up and analyzed. This was a very deliberate act, not only of murder and violence, but also of media creation. I mean, this was, in a way, engineered for internet virality.michael barbaroAnd then it did go viral.kevin rooseYes. Twitter and Facebook and YouTube, all the platforms, tried to take down the video as soon as it popped up, but it just kept popping back up. It’s very hard to contain. So it’s still out there. I mean, yeah, I’m looking at, right now, something posted, you know, six hours ago. It’s the video of the shooting, and it’s still up. And I don’t think it’ll ever fully disappear.michael barbaroKevin, thank you very much.kevin rooseThank you.Listen and subscribe to our podcast from your mobile device: Via Apple Podcasts | Via RadioPublic | Via StitcherA gunman opened fire at two mosques in Christchurch, New Zealand, killing at least 50 people. The massacre was partly streamed online. We look at why the attack was, in some ways, made by and for the internet.[For an exclusive look at how the biggest stories on “The Daily” podcast come together, subscribe to our newsletter. Read the latest edition here.]On today’s episode:Kevin Roose, who writes about technology for The New York Times.Background reading:New Zealand grappled with grief and horror in the aftermath of the shooting. A 28-year-old man from Australia has been charged with murder.“In some ways, it felt like a first — an internet-native mass shooting, conceived and produced entirely within the irony-soaked discourse of modern extremism.” Read Kevin Roose’s column about the imprint of internet culture on the attack.New Zealand’s government is diving into a discussion of gun control. “Our gun laws will change — now is the time,” Prime Minister Jacinda Arden said after the shooting. Officials will also open an inquiry on what was known about the gunman before the massacre.Tune in, and tell us what you think. Email us at thedaily@nytimes.com. Follow Michael Barbaro on Twitter: @mikiebarb. And if you’re interested in advertising with “The Daily,” write to us at thedaily-ads@nytimes.com.Kevin Roose contributed reporting.AdvertisementSupported byBy The Associated PressSEATTLE — The Latest on a multiple shooting spree and carjacking in Seattle that left two people dead and two injured (all times local):1:35 p.m.A woman shot in an apparent random Seattle shooting spree and a carjacking that left two people dead is a teacher who says she thought a shooting might be possible at school but never while she was driving.Second-grade teacher Deborah Judd was driving home Wednesday when she says someone stepped out into the street and shot her three times.She spoke from her hospital bed Thursday and says the bullets went into her arm, shoulder and lungs but didn't hit anything vital.Jail records show the man arrested in connection with the incident is Tad Michael Norman.Police say the suspect shot Judd and bus driver Eric Stark, then shot and killed another man in a carjacking and killed another man in a crash.___10:45 a.m.Jail records have identified the man they arrested in an apparently random spree of shootings and a carjacking that left two people dead as Tad Michael Norman. Two people were also injured.King County Jail records show the 33-year-old Norman was booked on investigation of homicide, robbery and assault Thursday after his release from a hospital where for treatment of what were characterized as minor injuries.Police have said the suspect left his home Wednesday afternoon, shot and wounded a woman driving a car and a male bus driver, then shot and killed another man in a carjacking and got in a head-on crash with another vehicle, killing the man who was driving the other car.It was not immediately clear if Norman has an attorney.— This item corrects that jail records, not police, identified Norman.___8:30 a.m.A Seattle bus driver hailed as a hero for steering the bus away from a gunman who opened fire on him and his passengers says he was just doing his job and is "glad to be alive."Eric Stark was hit in the torso Wednesday afternoon by a bullet but authorities say he still managed to turn the bus around and drive away.Officials say the gunman who opened fire on the bus while walking in a neighborhood Wednesday then opened fire on a motorist, killing him.Stark told ABC's "Good Morning America" he did what "any other driver would be able to do if they were physically able."AdvertisementSupported byBy David Montgomery and Julia JacobsHOUSTON — Relatives of Jazmine Barnes, the 7-year-old Texas girl who was fatally shot inside a moving car, grieved on Saturday at an emotionally charged rally not far from where the gunman opened fire on a family that was out on a morning coffee run.Nearly 1,000 people gathered to honor Jazmine and to urge law enforcement to find the man who the police said attacked on Dec. 30 without provocation.Jazmine, who was black, was in the car with her mother and three sisters when a white man pulled his red pickup truck beside them and began shooting, the police said. A bullet struck Jazmine in the head and she died at the scene, the police said. The gunman was described as a man in his 30s or 40s wearing a hooded sweatshirt.“We’re going to find him no matter what corner we have to turn,” said LaPorsha Washington, Jazmine’s mother, who was driving at the time of the attack. “We’re going to find you.”In the crowd, a call-and-response chant demanded “Justice for Jazmine.” They embraced one another. A pastor led them in prayer.Ms. Washington told The Houston Chronicle that she believed the attack was racially motivated, and the case has drawn attention from civil rights activists across the country.“I have no tint on my windows or anything so you can see there is a mother — a black mother — with daughters, beautiful children,” Ms. Washington told CNN. “You took my baby from me and you have no care in the world.”Sheriff Ed Gonzalez of Harris County, Tex., said at a news conference this week that it was too early for investigators to speculate about the gunman’s motive because he had not yet been identified.Community members drew a connection to a shooting in August 2017, which remains unsolved.In that episode, a white man in a pickup opened fire with an AR-15-style rifle at a car carrying A’Vonta Williams, who is black, and his girlfriend’s family, according to the sheriff’s office and Mr. Williams’s mother. No one was killed but both of Mr. Williams’s legs were shattered by a bullet, said his mother, Kisshima Williams. The girlfriend’s grandmother was also injured.Sheriff Gonzalez said the police were taking a fresh look at that case for any possible links to the recent attack. The shootings occurred about six miles apart, he said.Lee Merritt, a Philadelphia-based lawyer representing Jazmine’s family, said on Saturday he believed the shooting had the markings of a hate crime, in part because of the “randomness and unprovoked nature” of the attack.United States Representative Sheila Jackson Lee, a Democrat whose district includes parts of Houston, said the racial dynamics of the case were apparent. “Do not be afraid to call this what it seems to be: a hate crime,” she told the crowd, demanding an investigation by the Justice Department.After Jazmine’s killing, the public mobilized to help the family. Mr. Merritt and Shaun King, a prominent racial justice activist and a columnist at The Intercept, have offered a $100,000 reward for information leading to the gunman’s arrest. DeAndre Hopkins, a wide receiver for the Houston Texans, pledged to donate his paycheck from this weekend’s playoff game, which amounts to $29,000, to help pay for Jazmine’s funeral.At the rally on Saturday, supporters clutched banners and artwork dedicated to Jazmine, who was in second grade at a Houston-area school.“No peace, no justice,” the crowd chanted. Many parents said the shooting put them in fear of their own lives and those of their children.The site of the rally, a Walmart parking lot, was about a half-mile from where the attack took place, said Lt. Eric Batton of the Harris County Sheriff’s Office. The store provided the police with the first clue about the gunman’s identity: images of his pickup truck captured by video surveillance.But aside from a sketch of the gunman, his identity remains unknown. At the rally, Sheriff Gonzalez urged the crowd to keep reporting possible leads to police. “We’re always just one phone call away from being able to break this case,” he said.Kim Green, a 44-year-old mother of two boys, said she drove more than 50 miles with her 12-year-old son, Khayman Clarkson, to attend the rally.She clutched a banner reading “Justice” and “Jazmine” and a drawing of a princess she planned to give the family.“I have two black boys living in the middle of all these senseless killings,” she said. “I’m definitely worried about my own children. It’s too close to home.”AdvertisementSupported byBy Damien CaveCHRISTCHURCH, New Zealand — Brenton Harrison Tarrant, the Australian man accused of killing 50 people last month at two mosques in Christchurch, New Zealand, appeared in court on Friday via video link from prison to face dozens of additional charges.With the relatives of several victims watching in a Christchurch courtroom — along with wounded survivors, including two men in wheelchairs — Mr. Tarrant was officially charged with 50 counts of murder and 39 charges of attempted murder, as prosecutors added to the solo charge they laid against him in March.Appearing onscreen from Auckland, handcuffed and wearing a gray shirt, Mr. Tarrant sat still and said nothing.Judge Cameron Mander of the Christchurch High Court moved quickly through the hearing, the first of several in what could be a process lasting more than a year.He ordered a pair of health assessments for Mr. Tarrant, 28, with the results due at his next appearance, scheduled for June 14. A plea, the judge said, would follow the results of the assessments.If Mr. Tarrant is found guilty, he could be sentenced to life in prison without parole. No one in New Zealand has ever received that sentence, but judges have the right to impose it for particularly heinous murders.New Zealand does not have the death penalty.Judge Mander also approved several suppression orders that will prevent certain details of the proceedings from being reported by the news media.The 39 names of victims linked to the attempted murder charges cannot be published, the judge said, to protect them from “undue hardship.” Images of Mr. Tarrant cannot be published without his face being pixelated; no photos, video or audio can be recorded in court.International news outlets not subject to New Zealand jurisdiction could be barred from Mr. Tarrant’s trial if they do not comply, Judge Mander said.Mr. Tarrant had previously said he planned to represent himself, but two defense lawyers from Auckland acted on his behalf — Shane Tait and a colleague, Jonathan Hudson.In a statement on Thursday, Mr. Tait said the right to consult a lawyer, along with the right to a fair trial, were protected under New Zealand law. He said he would not comment further on the case or his role.Mr. Tarrant’s appearance took place as the New Zealand government has moved quickly to ban military-style weapons and as officials continue to investigate how the gunman was able to carry out the attacks.The gunman is believed to have posted a hate-filled manifesto online shortly before carrying out the killings, which were then livestreamed on Facebook.On Thursday, over the objections of technology companies, Australia passed a law requiring social media platforms to quickly remove “abhorrent violent material.” New Zealand is also considering putting restrictions on social media.AdvertisementSupported byBy The Associated PressWELLINGTON, New Zealand — New Zealand lawmakers have voted overwhelmingly in favor of new gun control measures during the first stage of a bill they hope to rush into law by the end of next week.The bill would ban the types of weapons a gunman used to kill 50 people at two mosques last month.Only one lawmaker from the 120 that sit in Parliament voted against the legislation in a bipartisan display of unity. Tuesday's vote was the first of three that lawmakers must pass before the bill becomes law.AdvertisementSupported byBy ReutersCANBERRA — Australia will fine social media and web hosting companies up to 10 percent of their annual global turnover and imprison executives for up to three years if violent content is not removed "expeditiously" under a new law.The new law passed by parliament on Thursday is in response to a lone gunman attack on two mosques in Christchurch on March 15 which killed 50 people as they attended Friday prayers.The gunman broadcasted his attack live on Facebook and it was widely shared for over an hour before being removed, a timeframe Australian Prime Minister Scott Morrison described as unacceptable.Australian Brenton Tarrant, 28, a suspected white supremacist, was charged with one murder following the attack and was remanded without a plea.New Zealand police said on Thursday that Tarrant will face a total of 50 murder charges and 39 attempted murder charges when he appears in court on Friday.Under the new laws, it is now an offence in Australia for companies, such as Facebook Inc and Alphabet's Google, which owns YouTube, not to remove any videos or photographs that show murder, torture or rape without delay. Companies must also inform Australian police within a "reasonable" timeframe."It is important that we make a very clear statement to social media companies that we expect their behavior to change," Australian Minister for Communications and the Arts Mitch Fifield told reporters in Canberra.Australian Attorney-General Christian Porter described the laws as a "world first in terms of legislating the conduct of social media and online platforms".Juries will decide whether companies have complied with the timetable, heightening the risk of high-profile convictions."Whenever there are juries involved, they can get it wrong but when you add into the mix technology - which is complex - the risk is heightened," Jason Bosland, professor of media law, University of Melbourne told Reuters.Technology firms said they are already working on the issue."We have zero tolerance for terrorist content on our platforms," said a spokesperson for Google in an emailed statement."We are committed to leading the way in developing new technologies and standards for identifying and removing terrorist content."A spokeswoman for Facebook was not immediately available for comment.Facebook said last week it was exploring restrictions on who can access their live video-streaming service, depending on factors such as previous violations of the site's community standards.Digital Industry Group Inc (DIGI) - of which Facebook, Apple, Google, Amazon and Twitter are members - said the laws fail to understand the complexity of removing violent content."With the vast volumes of content uploaded to the internet every second, this is a highly complex problem," said Sunita Bose, Managing Director of DIGI. AdvertisementSupported byBy The Associated PressNEWTOWN, Conn. — Jeremy Richman and his wife hatched an idea for a way to channel their grief on the day of their 6-year-old daughter's funeral. They would create a foundation to promote research into the brain pathologies behind violence.Their daughter Avielle was among the 20 children and six educators killed by a socially isolated gunman on Dec. 14, 2012, at Sandy Hook Elementary School.AdvertisementSupported byAll those who have helped to spread the worldwide myth that Muslims are a threat have blood on their hands.By Wajahat AliContributing Opinion Writer For Muslims, Friday Prayer is like Sunday Mass for Christians. It’s the day of community prayer. We travel to our local mosques, our religious sanctuary. Our families gather in the early afternoon to pray as a community. Kids run through the halls as the imam recites the Quran in Arabic. We eat together and mingle outside.This week, as those of us in the United States attend Friday Prayer, the Muslims in Christchurch, New Zealand, are preparing for funerals.People around the world are praying for the dead in Christchurch after terrorist attacks at two mosques. The authorities say a 28-year-old Australian walked into two mosques with assault rifles and killed at least 49 people. New Zealand’s prime minister, Jacinda Ardern, called it “an extraordinary and unprecedented act of violence.”Thoughts and prayers are not enough. These attacks are the latest manifestation of a growing and globalized ideology of white nationalism that must be addressed at its source — which includes the mainstream politicians and media personalities who nurture, promote and excuse it.If the gunman’s 74-page manifesto and social media posts are to be believed, he was inspired by a thriving online ideological structure that recruits and radicalizes mostly men to save “Western civilization” from a foreign “invasion.”We’ve seen this before. The gunman’s justifications for his act of terrorism were similar to those in the 1,500-page manifesto that the Norwegian Anders Breivik posted before he killed 77 people in 2011. Mr. Breivik wanted to punish Europe for its multiculturalism and welcome of Muslim immigrants. His manifesto and attacks are said to have inspired the white nationalist Christopher Hasson, who was recently arrested on charges of stockpiling weapons with the desire to commit mass murder, especially against Muslims.If the idea that Muslims are a threat sounds familiar, it’s in part because it was used by President Trump to argue for a wall to protect America from a “caravan” of Central American migrants seeking asylum. He asserted that “Middle Easterners” were in the caravan, a claim he admitted he could not back up. During a summer trip to England, Mr. Trump warned that Britain was losing its “culture” and that immigration had “changed the fabric of Europe — and unless you act very quickly, it’s never going to be what it was.”Arguing for his travel ban aimed at mostly Muslim countries, Mr. Trump said, “I think Islam hates us,” lied about seeing Muslims celebrate the Sept. 11 attacks, and retweeted a fringe anti-Muslim group’s fake videos of Muslim refugees committing violence. No wonder the Christchurch manifesto praised Mr. Trump as “a symbol of renewed white identity and common purpose.”It’s clear that the dangers of white nationalism aren’t limited to the United States. This attack is a reminder that this dangerous ideology also threatens immigrant communities worldwide, and that it’s fueled by leaders around the world.Australia, where the gunman is said to be from, has plenty of its own anti-Muslim, xenophobic rhetoric.In 2015, a movement called Reclaim Australia organized protests against the “enforcing of Shariah law in Australia” and “the teaching of Islam in government schools.” The Conversation reported that placards displayed by the group at a rally read “Islam is an enemy of the West.” A key policy goal of the far-right political party Australian Liberty Alliance is to “stop the Islamization of Australia.” Its website warns, “Islam is not merely a religion, it is a totalitarian ideology with global aspirations.”While Australia’s prime minister, Scott Morrison, described the suspect as “an extremist, right-wing, violent terrorist,” an Australian senator, Fraser Anning, responded to the Christchurch attack by blaming “the immigration program which allowed Muslim fanatics to migrate to New Zealand in the first place.”It seems the senator shares similar sentiments with mass murderers.In his manifesto, the gunman, who referred to himself as a “regular white man,” wrote that he was carrying out the attack to “directly reduce immigration rates to European lands by intimidating and physically removing the invaders themselves.”The manifesto reveals an obsession with white supremacy, discussing the Battle of Vienna in 1683, which is glorified by white nationalists and Mr. Breivik as the critical moment when Europe staved off the Ottoman Empire’s advance and protected itself from Islam. Text scrawled on the gunman’s weapons appears to refer to military battles such as the 1189 Siege of Acre, a victory for the Christian Crusaders seeking to retake Jerusalem from Muslims. He mentioned Alexandre Bissonnette, who shot and killed six people in a Quebec mosque in 2017 and was a known white nationalist with anti-immigrant and anti-Muslim resentment.His ideas — and their sources and supporters — were familiar to me. As a researcher for the Center for American Progress Action Fund’s 2011 investigation “Fear Inc.: The Roots of the Islamophobia Network in America,” I connected fringe anti-Muslim conspiracies — such as the made-up threat of Shariah law in America — to the funding sources, think tanks, media personalities, grass-roots groups and politicians who created and promoted them.These entities have worked together to reinforce the message that Muslim Americans are inherently radical and represent a “demographic time bomb” that will overtake the white population. Mr. Breivik repeatedly cited these groups and people, many of them now closely linked to the Trump administration. Although they should not be blamed for Mr. Breivik’s violence, Marc Sageman, a former C.I.A. officer and a consultant on terrorism, said Mr. Breivik nonetheless emerges from the same ideological network.Among white nationalists’ major motivators is “the great replacement” conspiracy theory. They fear that Jews, blacks and Muslims will replace white people and eventually subordinate them. Jews are often viewed as the diabolical head of the cabal, the nerve center, who use their infinite wealth and power to reduce and weaken the white man.In October, Robert Bowers walked into the Tree of Life synagogue in Pittsburgh and killed 11 Jewish worshipers. He posted on the right-wing social network Gab that the Jewish refugee resettlement agency HIAS “likes to bring invaders in that kill our people” and “I can’t sit by and watch my people get slaughtered.” He also re-shared a post about punishing “filthy evil Jews” for bringing “filthy evil Muslims into the country.” This echoed the anti-Semitic conspiracy theory that Jewish billionaire George Soros funded the migrant “caravan” — a lie that was promoted by President Trump and other prominent conservatives.Representative Steve King, an Iowa Republican, recently asked, “White nationalist, white supremacist, Western civilization — how did that language become offensive? He once tweeted, “We can’t restore our civilization with somebody else’s babies,” referring to the children of Latino immigrants. Steve Bannon, President Trump’s former chief adviser and former head of Breitbart News, has recommended the racist, dystopian novel “Camp of the Saints,” in which brown immigrants invade and take over France.While news of the New Zealand shooting was breaking, President Trump tweeted a link — which he has since deleted — to the home page of Breitbart News, a site that has regularly published anti-Muslim and anti-immigrant conspiracy theories.Upon learning about the massacre in Christchurch, a Muslim friend messaged me, “How will we keep our kids safe?”I didn’t have a good answer. But I know the threat we’re facing isn’t just individual terrorists. It’s the global ideology of white nationalism and white supremacy. We have to take it seriously, and call out politicians, academics and media personalities who give it a platform under the guise of exploring both sides, fostering debate or avoiding political correctness.The cost is too great. Just look to Christchurch and the 49 worshipers who should have returned home to their families and community instead of attending their last prayer.AdvertisementSupported byBy The Associated PressEL PASO, Texas — A West Texas sheriff's deputy, who was critically wounded Friday in a shooting during a traffic stop, has died.The El Paso County Sheriff's office confirmed the death of Deputy Peter Herrera in a statement on Facebook. It gave no further details.Authorities had said on Friday that they expected Herrera to survive the shooting because he was wearing a protective vest.AdvertisementSupported byBy The New York TimesForty-nine people were killed in shootings at two mosques in central Christchurch, New Zealand, on Friday, in a terrorist attack that Prime Minister Jacinda Ardern described as “an extraordinary and unprecedented act of violence.”• Officials said that one man in his late 20s had been charged with murder, and that two explosive devices were found attached to a vehicle that they had stopped.• A Muslim leader in New Zealand said the attack was especially shocking as it took place around Friday Prayer. The police urged people to stay away from the mosques until further notice.• A video and manifesto that appeared to be by a gunman involved in the shooting were posted online on the day of the attack.Shots were fired at Al Noor Mosque on Deans Avenue in the center of the city, and at Linwood Mosque, about three miles away, the police said.The country’s police commissioner, Mike Bush, said in an evening news conference that 41 people had been killed at Al Noor Mosque and seven at Linwood Mosque, and that a further victim had died at Christchurch Hospital.The police said that four people, including three men and one woman, had been taken into custody. Prime Minister Scott Morrison of Australia said that one of them was Australian.Mr. Bush said that a man in his late 20s had been charged with murder and would appear in Christchurch court on Saturday morning. A number of firearms were recovered from the scenes of the shootings, he said.Of the three others who were arrested, the police commissioner said that one might have had nothing to do with the attack and that the police were working to determine how the other two might have been involved.Ms. Ardern said earlier that none of those detained were on security watch lists.Two explosive devices were found on one vehicle, Mr. Bush said, adding that the police had defused one and were in the process of defusing the other.Mr. Bush had earlier urged people not to go to mosques anywhere in New Zealand on Friday. He also urged mosques nationally to “close your doors until you hear from us again.”— CHARLOTTE GRAHAM-McLAY and MEGAN SPECIAA 17-minute video posted to social media appears to show part of the attack.The clip, which may have been taken from a helmet camera worn by a gunman, begins behind the wheel of a car. A man, whose face can occasionally be seen in the rearview mirror, drives through the streets of Christchurch before pulling up in front of Al Noor Mosque, beside the sprawling Hagley Park.He approaches the mosque on foot, his weapon visible, and begins shooting at people at the entrance. What follows is a harrowing nearly two minutes of his firing on the worshipers.At one point, the gunman exits the mosque and fires in both directions down the sidewalk before returning to his car for another gun — which, like the others, was inscribed with numbers, symbols or messages. When he re-enters the mosque, he shoots several bodies at close range.After another few minutes, he returns to his vehicle and drives away.“There wasn’t even time to aim, there was so many targets,” he says at one point, as the sirens of an emergency response vehicle blare in the background.— MEGAN SPECIA and JASON BAILEYBefore the shooting, someone appearing to be the gunman posted links to a white-nationalist manifesto on Twitter and the online forum 8chan. The 8chan post included a link to what appeared to be the gunman’s Facebook page, where he said he would also broadcast live video of the attack.The Twitter posts showed weapons covered in the names of past military generals and men who have recently carried out mass shootings.In his manifesto, he identified himself as a 28-year-old man born in Australia and listed his white nationalist heroes.Writing that he had purposely used guns to stir discord in the United States over the Second Amendment’s provision on the right to bear arms, he also declared himself a fascist. “For once, the person that will be called a fascist, is an actual fascist,” he wrote.— DANIEL VICTOR and TIFFANY MAYFelix Kjellberg, a polarizing YouTube celebrity known as PewDiePie, distanced himself from the attacks after the man who filmed himself shooting victims at a mosque encouraged viewers to “subscribe to PewDiePie” in a video livestream.“I feel absolutely sickened having my name uttered by this person,” Mr. Kjellberg, a Swede, said on Twitter.Mr. Kjellberg has courted controversy by performing anti-Semitic gestures, which he calls satirical, in his videos. He has a following of 89 million subscribers.— TIFFANY MAYOver the last 18 months, tech companies have promised stronger safeguards to ensure that violent content is not distributed through their sites. But those new safeguards were not enough to stop the posting of a video and manifesto believed related to Friday’s shooting.A 17-minute video that included graphic footage apparently of the shooting could be found on Facebook, YouTube, Twitter and Instagram more than an hour after being posted. While Facebook and Twitter took down pages thought to be linked to the gunman, the posted content was spread rapidly through other accounts.In order to evade detection, people appeared to be cropping the video or posting the text of the manifesto as an image — both of which are techniques used to evade automated systems that find and delete content.Social media companies have heavily invested in those systems, with Facebook reporting last year that more than 99 percent of terrorism content by the Islamic State and Al Qaeda was found and removed through artificial intelligence.A Facebook spokeswoman offered condolences to the victims and said the company was “removing any praise or support for the crime and the shooter or shooters as soon as we’re aware.”— SHEERA FRENKEL and DANIEL VICTORMoustafa Farouk, a spokesman for the Federation of Islamic Associations of New Zealand, said it was especially shocking that the attack occurred around Friday Prayer.Mr. Farouk, who said in a telephone interview that he was on his way to Christchurch to meet with Muslims there, said he had never imagined that an attack of this kind could happen in New Zealand.“It’s one of the most peaceful countries in the world,” he added, although he said that “this kind of random act of violence will affect that image.”— MEGAN SPECIAMs. Ardern called Friday “one of New Zealand’s darkest days.”“What has happened here is an extraordinary and unprecedented act of violence,” the prime minister said at a news conference in New Plymouth, describing the shooting as “an act that has absolutely no place in New Zealand.”“Many of those affected may be migrants to New Zealand — they may even be refugees here,” Ms. Ardern said of the victims. “They are one of us. The person who has perpetrated these acts is not.”Ibrar Sheikh, the secretary of the Al Mustafa Jamia Masjid in south Auckland, described the two mosques targeted in Christchurch as “a United Nations” of ethnicities.— CHARLOTTE GRAHAM McLAYAman Singh, who works at a convenience store close to the Deans Avenue mosque, said he had heard the gunshots on Friday afternoon, and that shortly afterward people had streamed past the shop, bloody and crying.Mr. Singh, 26, said he knew several people who worshiped at the mosque.“My really good friend goes there,” he said, adding that he had not been able to confirm the friend’s whereabouts on Friday afternoon.Mr. Singh, who moved to New Zealand from India four and a half years ago, was still hiding in the store with his wife, as the police had yet to arrive at their location.He said they would be unlikely to be able to return home anyway, as their street was cordoned off because it was close to the Linwood Mosque that was also attacked.— CHARLOTTE GRAHAM-McLAYMurders are rare in New Zealand, and gun homicides even rarer. There were 35 murders countrywide in 2017. And since 2007, gun homicides have been in the single digits each year except 2009, when there were 11.But there are plenty of guns.There were 1.2 million registered firearms in the country of 4.6 million people in 2017, according to the Small Arms Survey, a Swiss nonprofit.A mass shooting in the New Zealand in 1990 — when a man killed 13 people, including two 6-year-olds, after a dispute with his neighbor in the seaside town of Aramoana — led directly to tightened gun laws, including restrictions on “military style semiautomatic weapons.”Gun owners must be licensed, a process that includes a review of criminal activity and mental health, attendance at a safety program, an explanation of how the gun would be used, a residence visit to ensure secure storage, and testimonials from relatives and friends.— DANIEL VICTORAdvertisementSupported byBy The Associated PressBOISE, Idaho — The largest supplier of bump stocks turned in its entire remaining inventory to be destroyed — some 60,000 devices. Washington state's buyback program was so popular it ran out of money. One dealer held a "Viking funeral" for his last bump stock, pouring a can of beer on it and then melting it down with a flamethrower.A nationwide ban took effect Tuesday on bump stocks, the attachment used by the gunman in the 2017 Las Vegas massacre to make his weapons fire rapidly like machine guns.How many of the estimated half-million devices believed to be in circulation in the U.S. are still around is anyone's guess, but in the weeks leading up to the ban, there were signs that many were destroyed or turned in as required.Anyone in possession of a bump stock from now on can be charged with a federal offense punishable by up to 10 years in prison.The Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives outlawed the attachments at President Donald Trump's direction after the Las Vegas gunman rained fire from his high-rise hotel suite on concertgoers, killing 58 people in the deadliest mass shooting in modern U.S. history.On Thursday, the Supreme Court declined to put the ban on hold.As the prohibition drew near, RW Arms in Fort Worth, Texas, featured a countdown clock on its website and heavily promoted last chances to buy the accessories. By the time the ban took effect, RW Arms was left with 60,000, probably worth millions, since they sell for around $150 to $250 each.The company turned over crates of them to the ATF, and a video showed boxes being loaded onto a conveyer belt and fed into an industrial grinder.Washington state set aside $150,000 to offer owners $150 for each device they turned in to police. Within weeks, the money had been used up.The ATF declined to say how many people brought their bump stocks to an ATF office.T.J. Kirgin, owner of a firearms tactical gear company in St. Peters, Missouri, said that in the weeks before the measure went into effect, he made one last sweep through his warehouse to make sure he didn't have any more devices left.And then he took his very last one and with some friends held a mock funeral for it, reducing it to a hunk of melted plastic embedded in a rock.While gun control activists welcomed the end of the line for a device blamed for horrifying carnage, Kirgin called it not just the day bump stocks died but the day freedom died."If they can do this with a piece of plastic, then they'll be able to do it with another piece of plastic and another piece of metal, another piece of plastic," he said. "And it's just systematically taking away Second Amendment rights."AdvertisementSupported byBy The Associated PressISLAMABAD — Pakistanis are celebrating their National Day with a military parade that's showcasing short- and long-range missiles, tanks, jets, drones and other hardware.Pakistani President Arif Alvi marked the occasion saying that the region needs peace, not war and Pakistan wants to live peacefully with its neighbors. He said Pakistan's war is against hunger, poverty and unemployment.As part of security measures for Saturday's parade in Islamabad, authorities suspended mobile phone services.AdvertisementSupported byBy The Associated PressCANBERRA, Australia — Australia's prime minister said Thursday that he had ruled out any vote-sharing deal with an influential minor party in a bid to protect the nation's strict gun controls.Prime Minister Scott Morrison made his decision after One Nation leader Pauline Hanson apparently questioned the official account of a 1996 massacre in which a gunman acting alone killed 35 people in Tasmania state.Less than two weeks after the Port Arthur massacre, Australia banned semi-automatic rifles and shotguns. New Zealand similarly banned a range of semi-automatic firearms after a lone gunman killed 50 worshippers in two Christchurch mosques on March 15.Morrison said his conservative Liberal Party would disadvantage One Nation candidates under Australia's preferential voting system at general elections due in May by refusing to share votes.Under Australia's systems, voters rank candidates in order of preference. The higher candidates are ranked by a majority of voters, the better their chances of being elected.The Liberal Party would normally direct its supporters to rank the opposition center-left Labor Party last, because Labor candidates have a chance of forming government. Like-minded parties often make deals to rank each others' candidates ahead of a common enemy.But in a move interpreted by some as putting principle ahead of politics, Morrison said his party would urge voters to rank Labor ahead of One Nation."This is a decision which is based on our strong view about the sanctity of Australia's gun laws and to ensure that at no stage that those things should ever be put at risk," Morrison told reporters."It's very important, having been the party that introduced those laws, that we ensure that they are forever protected and there can be no compromise when it comes to those issues or any trading on the issue of those gun laws," he added.Anti-Muslim One Nation has been widely condemned after an Al Jazeera documentary reported this week that two party officials flew to the United States for meetings with pro-gun interests including the National Rifle Association and political donors Koch Industries in September last year seeking money to undermine Australian gun laws.The two-part documentary that uses video secretly filmed by a fake gun lobbyist reveals Hanson said during a dinner with party officials in her home state of Queensland last year that she has "a lot of questions" about the Port Arthur massacre.She quoted an Australian state premier who said almost a decade before the mass shooting in the ruins of a 19th century Tasmanian prison: "It will take a massacre in Tasmania before we get gun reform in Australia."Conspiracy theorists argue the quote proves that the massacre was engineered by the gun reform lobby. Others argue the quote reflects a New South Wales premier's frustration that Tasmania had Australia's weakest gun laws and was most resistant to change. Australia now has relatively uniform gun laws.While on the subject of conspiracy theories, a party official at the dinner is recorded mentioning the al-Qaida attacks on the United States on Sept. 11, 2001.Hanson said on Thursday her broadcast comments has been "heavily edited" and did not reflect her views on the Australian massacre."There is no question in my mind that Martin Bryant was the only person responsible for the murders of 35 innocent lives," Hanson told reporters, referring to the convicted killer."Let me make it very clear to everyone in this country: One Nation will never water-down gun policy in this country," she added.She described Morrison as "a fool" who would give Labor the government at the next election through his decision on vote-sharing.Morrison said Hanson's broadcast comments on the Port Arthur massacre, to which the gunman pleaded guilty, was the final straw. He said he consulted former Liberal Prime Minister John Howard, who introduced Australia's gun reforms and a buyback that reduced the estimated number of guns in Australia by 20 percent, before announcing his decision.Barnaby Joyce, a senior lawmaker in the Nationals party, the rural-based junior partner of the ruling coalition that most directly competes against One Nation for conservative voters, described Hanson's comments on Port Arthur as "bonkers mad.""It is beyond the pale. We now have One Nation questioning both 9/11, the terrorist attack on New York and the Port Arthur massacre," Joyce told Australian Broadcasting Corp. "What is next for them? Are they going to question man on the moon? "The Nationals have yet to say whether they will follow the Liberal Party lead by putting Labor ahead of One Nation on how-to-vote cards distributed at polling booths to its supporters.AdvertisementSupported byBy ReutersCHRISTCHURCH — The Australian man accused of killing 50 worshippers at two mosques in New Zealand faced an additional 49 murder charges in court on Friday and was ordered to undergo a mental assessment to determine his fitness for trial over the attacks.In an attack broadcast live on Facebook, a lone gunman armed with semi-automatic weapons targeted Muslims attending Friday prayers in Christchurch on March 15.Brenton Tarrant, 28, was charged with one murder the day after the attack and remanded without a plea. In Christchurch's High Court, where he appeared by video link, 39 extra attempted murder charges were also filed along with the new murder charges.AdvertisementSupported byBy The Associated PressFORT WORTH, Texas — A Texas retailer of now-banned bump stocks has transferred about 60,000 of the gun-related items to the federal government to be destroyed.RW Arms of Fort Worth turned over the bump stocks to the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives. The products will be shredded and recycled.ATF agents were present as crates of new RW Arms bump stops were delivered to a shredding facility on Tuesday, the day the ban took effect.OpinionGun makers will face a jury. But it’s the play-soldier subculture they’ve promoted that’s being judged.A Bushmaster AR-15, the type of gun used in the Sandy Hook school massacre.CreditCreditJulie Dermansky/Corbis, via Getty ImagesSupported byBy The Editorial BoardThe editorial board represents the opinions of the board, its editor and the publisher. It is separate from the newsroom and the Op-Ed section.For years, uncompromising gun enthusiasts have demanded that politicians, the press and the American people never slander their beloved military-style semiautomatic rifles with the name “assault weapons.”Even though the guns are marketed with military imagery. Even though there’s a thriving business in aftermarket accessories, like thermal scopes and high-capacity magazines made to “military specification.” Even after these lethal weapons have been used to kill scores of people in massacre after massacre after massacre. Calling these rifles “assault weapons” is unfair, gun makers and their apologists insist, because it implies they are frightening weapons of war when they are sold for civilian use. This distinction, the fairness of it, matters not at all to the women, men and children wounded or killed by these guns.The Connecticut Supreme Court on Thursday permitted a civil suit to move forward against the companies that manufactured and sold the weapon used by the gunman to fire 154 rounds during a five-minute rampage through Sandy Hook Elementary School in 2012. It was an unexpected loss for the firearms industry, which has long enjoyed federal protection — granted by Congress —  from legal redress for the victims of its products. In this case, the court allowed the suit to proceed over whether the weapon maker violated state prohibitions against unfair trade practices. The plaintiffs argue that the AR-15-style rifle used in the attack had been marketed as a weapon of war in a campaign aimed deliberately at troubled young men like Adam Lanza, the Sandy Hook gunman.A trial could force gun companies to turn over internal communications about their advertising and sales operations. But the public doesn’t need internal emails to recognize the obvious incongruity between sanitized terminology like “modern sporting rifle” and ads with men dressed in tactical gear, swinging tricked-out AR-15s and creeping around like wannabe members of the Navy SEALs. The weapon used at Sandy Hook was advertised as “the ultimate combat weapons system” with the slogan: “Consider your man card reissued.”While it will be gun companies on the stand, the unindicted co-conspirator in the Connecticut courtroom is the portion of American gun culture — and it is only a portion — that fetishizes military weaponry with little regard to the dangers of putting such deadly weapons freely into the hands of a civilian population.AdvertisementSupported byBy Charlotte Graham-McLayWELLINGTON, New Zealand — As Prime Minister Jacinda Ardern of New Zealand considered on Monday how her government would investigate the terrorist attack that traumatized the country 10 days ago, she also began returning to normal business, announcing that she would make a long-delayed trip to Beijing next week.The announcement signaled a shift after signs of growing tensions between the countries. Ms. Ardern, who told reporters that she would meet with China’s president, Xi Jinping, and the country’s premier, Li Keqiang, said the long-planned trip had been scaled back to a single day in light of the attack.The visit will be “literally 24 hours, and traveling with as little time away as possible,” Ms. Ardern said, adding that the trip had been planned “some weeks ago” and that Chinese officials had been “incredibly accommodating” about her decision to shorten it after the shooting attacks on two Christchurch mosques in which 50 people were killed.Her original plan had been to travel with a business delegation from New Zealand and to make stops in three cities. Instead, she will travel without the group and will visit only Beijing.There have been growing fears that New Zealand’s close economic relationship with China was fraying after Ms. Ardern was unable to schedule a visit there to follow up on a November invitation. Around the same time, the start of a much-anticipated joint tourism initiative with China was canceled, and that has now been rescheduled for Friday.China is New Zealand’s largest trading partner and imports more than $10 billion of its products.Commentators suggested that Ms. Ardern’s government was facing retaliation because it had joined other Western nations in taking a tough stance against the Chinese technology company Huawei. The company took out advertisements in the country’s largest newspapers last month, trying to win public support in New Zealand for its involvement in the country’s 5G telecommunications networks.“China is an important regional and global actor with whom we must work on challenges facing the global community and those critical to the security and prosperity of our region,” Ms. Ardern told reporters on Monday, having previously played down talk of tensions.The apparent shift in the relationship came as her cabinet met on Monday to decide what form its investigation into the Christchurch attacks would take, settling on a royal commission — an independent inquiry reserved for the most serious matters in New Zealand public life.Ms. Ardern said the commission would investigate whether anything could have been done to prevent the attacks, in which a gunman killed 50 people and injured 50 more as they worshiped at two mosques during Friday Prayer on March 15. The gunman broadcast the killings live on Facebook.The inquiry would also examine the accessibility of semiautomatic weapons — Ms. Ardern has already acted to ban military-style versions of such guns — the role social media played in the attack, and whether New Zealand’s security services or other government agencies could have done anything to prevent it.Muslims in New Zealand and overseas were “quite rightly asking questions about how this terror attack was able to happen here,” Ms. Ardern said.Dean Knight, a public law professor at Victoria University of Wellington, said royal commissions were usually led by retired judges, lawyers or industry experts and took “as long as they need to take,” though Ms. Ardern said this inquiry would not take “years” as others have in the past.“Because they can be bespoke in their work, it’s possible to develop a strategy to deliver things promptly,” Dr. Knight said by email. “But if the inquiry is run with the tradition of court-like processes, it will slow things down.”Ms. Ardern said it was “unacceptable” that the gunman’s video was still available on social media platforms, even after tech companies assured her that they were working to remove it. While she would not comment on the policies of individual companies, shortened videos of the shooting — which has been classified as illegal to share by New Zealand’s chief censor — were still available on Twitter on Monday.Twitter said in an emailed statement that it had “rigorous processes and a dedicated team in place” for emergency situations such as the Christchurch attacks, and that it cooperated with law enforcement where required.The company did not detail what the emergency processes entailed or how they differed from normal moderation tools. It did not say whether New Zealand law enforcement had made specific requests.Twitter has asked users to report such material if they see it, but Ms. Ardern said relying on users to flag the video was “not an effective way of managing incredibly disturbing content.”AdvertisementSupported byBy The Associated PressWASHINGTON — Gun rights groups are asking the Supreme Court to stop the Trump administration from beginning to enforce its ban on bump stock devices, which allow semi-automatic weapons to fire like machine guns.AdvertisementSupported byBy Damien Cave and Matt StevensThe shootings that killed at least 49 people at two mosques in New Zealand on Friday have placed new scrutiny on New Zealand’s gun laws and sparked a fervent debate about whether they were a factor in the gunman’s decision to carry out his attack there.The man was identified in court papers as Brenton Harrison Tarrant, 28, and officials have said he was an Australian citizen, which has led to comparisons between gun laws in Australia and in New Zealand.While New Zealand’s laws governing the purchase of semiautomatic rifles are more restrictive than those in the United States, the country is much freer with firearms than Australia is, allowing most guns to be purchased without requiring them to be tracked.“New Zealand is almost alone with the United States in not registering 96 percent of its firearms — and those are its most common firearms, the ones most used in crimes,” said Philip Alpers of GunPolicy.org, a clearinghouse for gun law data worldwide. “There are huge gaps in New Zealand law, even if some of its laws are strong.”New Zealand’s prime minister, Jacinda Ardern, said on Saturday that five firearms, including two semiautomatic weapons, were used in the attacks.“If he went to New Zealand to commit these crimes,” Mr. Alpers said, “one can assume that the ease of obtaining these firearms may have been a factor in his decision to commit the crime in Christchurch.”[Get the latest updates on the New Zealand terrorist attack here.]In the years since a gunman killed 35 people in Port Arthur, Tasmania, in 1996, Australia has embarked on one of the world’s most expansive efforts to rid a society of gun violence. Officials significantly strengthened gun laws, severely restricted semiautomatic weapons and engaged in a buyback program that took more than 650,000 firearms off the streets.The gun laws in New Zealand are more layered, and do not fit easily into a pro or anti-gun rubric.Semiautomatic rifles and handguns, for example, require special licenses; a person can only buy one semiautomatic weapon at a time. “The police will look very askance at you if you want four or five of them,” Mr. Alpers said. “It gets harder and harder if you want more and more.” Still, Mr. Alpers said, it is possible to obtain a large cache of weapons — either by acting alone or if more than one person is purchasing.As the law stands now, any person age 16 or older with an entry-level firearm license can keep any number of common rifles and shotguns without an official record of those guns being kept.Most of the guns in circulation can be sold on the internet or through ads in newspapers, and the most popular types of firearms can lawfully change hands in private homes or even hotel parking lots with no requirement that a record of the transaction be kept.Still, the country has generally been safe from gun massacres. Its last mass shooting, which left 13 people dead, was in 1990 — and it led to tighter rules around semiautomatic weapons.Police officers do not generally carry firearms and murders are rare; the death toll from Friday’s terrorist attack is roughly equivalent to the number of murders that occur in the country each year. The annual tally of gun homicides specifically is even lower.“New Zealanders are by and large safe users of firearms and that has led everybody to relax,” Mr. Alpers said. “It’s led New Zealanders to think they don’t have a problem.”[The gunman appeared to be steeped in the culture of the extreme-right internet.]At the same time, however, New Zealand’s gun culture is significant and deeply ingrained. Like the United States, Australia and Canada, New Zealand’s frontier history has led to a proliferation of guns used for sport, for protecting wide open spaces from animals, and for dealing with problems like wounded cattle.Of the 3.9 million New Zealanders of gun licensing age, 238,000 — 6 percent — have a firearm license, according to GunPolicy.org.“Our gun laws will change, now is the time,” Ms. Ardern said Saturday, though she did not say what that legislation would look like. “People will be seeking change, and I am committed to that.”Mr. Alpers predicted that lawmakers would work to make guns harder to obtain.“This will certainly change things in New Zealand,” he said. “I can’t think of a country that’s more likely to change its gun laws after something like this.”AdvertisementSupported byBy The Associated PressBERLIN — A prominent Austrian far-right activist who is under investigation for ties to the suspected New Zealand mosque gunman said Thursday that U.S. authorities have canceled his permit to travel to the United States without a visa.Austrian authorities on Monday searched the home of Martin Sellner, a leading member of the Identitarian Movement of Austria, and seized electronic devices belonging to him and his American fiancee Brittany Pettibone. The raid followed the discovery of a 1,500 euro (almost $1,700) donation sent to Sellner by the alleged Christchurch attacker last year.In a statement on social media, Sellner said he learned Thursday that U.S. authorities have revoked his ESTA permit. The visa waiver program allows citizens of some countries to enter the U.S. for under three months without needing a visa."We had actually planned to get married in the U.S. this summer and I've always been able to get in (to the United States) without problems," Sellner said on his YouTube channel, noting that American authorities hadn't denied him entry over his political activities in the past.The U.S. Embassy in Vienna declined to comment on the case and the Department for Homeland Security didn't immediately respond to an email seeking comment. It was unclear whether Sellner could still apply for a regular visa to travel to the United States.Last year, Sellner and Pettibone were denied entry to Britain after officials deemed their presence to be "not conducive to the public good."The Identitarian Movement has become the focus of an investigation by Austrian authorities following the discovery of the donation from the suspected New Zealand gunman Brenton Tarrant.Austria's conservative Chancellor Sebastian Kurz told reporters Wednesday that his government planned to act against extremism "whether it's radical Islamism or far-right fanatics.""Furthermore (we will) examine whether the Identitarians can be dissolved," he said.Austrian Interior Minister Herbert Kickl told lawmakers Thursday that authorities haven't found any evidence that Tarrant had "personal contacts to extremist persons or organizations" when he visited Austria from Nov. 27 to Dec. 4., 2018. Tarrant, an Australian citizen, had earlier spent time in Hungary, Romania and Bulgaria, and later flew to Estonia, he said.Tarrant has been charged with murder over the March 15 massacre of 50 people in the southern New Zealand city.Sellner told The Associated Press that he had exchanged emails with Tarrant after the donation and pointed him to his English-language YouTube channel, but denied having any involvement in the attack or inspiring Tarrant with his anti-Islam ideology.AdvertisementSupported byBy The New York Times[Click here for the latest updates.]• New Zealand grappled with grief and horror on Sunday as the death toll rose to 50 people two days after a gunman opened fire  at two mosques in the city of Christchurch. The terrorist attack appeared to have been carried out by a white nationalist who posted a racist manifesto online and streamed live video of the killings on Facebook.• A 28-year-old man from Australia was charged with murder and appeared Saturday morning in a Christchurch courtroom. Court papers identified him as Brenton Harrison Tarrant. The New Zealand police said he would face additional charges, and were considering charging him under the country’s Terrorism Suppression Act.• Minutes before the shooting began on Friday, Prime Minister Jacinda Ardern was emailed a copy of the manifesto purported to be from the gunman, her office said. Many news outlets and lawmakers also received the email.• Ms. Ardern promised that New Zealand’s “gun laws will change” and that her cabinet would discuss options for how, though she did not offer specifics. The gunman had five firearms, including two semiautomatic weapons, she said. But the issue could be a divisive one in a country where an extraordinary number of people own weapons, with few restrictions.Thirty-four victims of the shootings remain in Christchurch Hospital, 12 of them in critical condition, officials said Sunday.A 4-year-old girl also remains in critical condition at a children’s hospital in Auckland, where she was flown after the attack.A Christchurch Hospital spokesman, David Meates, said that on Saturday the hospital treated nine new victims of the Friday attack. They arrived with cuts, embedded glass fragments and injuries to their backs, knees and feet.Mr. Meates said the hospital was running seven operating theaters on Sunday instead of the usual three.“Many of these people need multiple surgeries due to the complex nature of their injuries, and the need to provide a number of shorter surgeries in a phased way so patients have the best chance of recovery,” he said.The airline Air New Zealand said one of its employees, Lilik Abdul Hamid, was among those killed.The company’s chief executive, Christopher Luxon, said in a statement that Mr. Hamid had been an aircraft maintenance engineer with Air New Zealand for 16 years.“He first got to know the team even earlier when he worked with our aircraft engineers in a previous role overseas,” Mr. Luxon said. “The friendships he made at that time led him to apply for a role in Air New Zealand and make the move to Christchurch.”Mr. Hamid is survived by his wife and two children, Mr. Luxon said.It was the first public announcement of one of the victim’s names. The police have yet to release a list of those who died.The police said on Sunday that the death toll had risen to 50 as officials discovered another body at the mosque on Deans Avenue, where most of the victims were killed. Another 50 people were injured.“As of last night we were able to take all of the victims from both of those scenes and in doing so we have located a further victim,” said Mike Bush, New Zealand’s police commissioner.Mr. Bush said a list of victims’ names has been compiled with the help of senior religious leaders and had been shared with family members. He said the list was an informal one, though, and that officials would not confirm the names publicly until the bodies had been formally identified.The bodies have not yet been released to the victims’ families, but Mr. Bush said he was conscious that Muslim religious practice requires prompt burial.“We are aware of the cultural and religious needs, so we are doing that as quickly and sensitively as possible,” he said.Police officials say it took 36 minutes from when they received the first call about a shooting at a mosque to when the suspect was taken in custody.“That is an incredibly fast response time,” said John Price, commander of the district police. “You have a mobile offender across a large metropolitan city, and I am very happy with the response of our staff.”During a news briefing on Saturday, officials provided a partial timeline but many details remained unclear. Officials said the gunman arrived at a second mosque, where he continued his rampage, seven minutes after leaving the first.The suspect was later arrested in a car, which was carrying improvised explosive devices, by two police officers. Mike Bush, New Zealand’s police commissioner, said the officers prevented further deaths.“Those two police officers acted with absolute courage,” Mr. Bush said on Sunday. “I’m so proud of what they’ve done. They have prevented further deaths and risked their lives doing so.”The shooting has vaulted New Zealand into what could be a divisive political battle over gun control in the country, where an extraordinary number of people own weapons, with few restrictions. The authorities say the suspect in the assault used five guns he had acquired legally, including two semiautomatic assault weapons.Within hours of the Friday killings, Prime Minister Jacinda Ardern promised changes to New Zealand gun laws and said regulations around semiautomatic weapons was “one of the issues.” New Zealand’s attorney general, David Parker, appeared to go beyond that statement at a vigil for the victims on Saturday, indicating that semiautomatic weapons would be banned, but he later backtracked. Mr. Parker told Radio New Zealand that had been trying to reflect Ms. Ardern’s comments that “we need to ban some semiautomatics, perhaps all of them.”“Those decisions have yet to be taken, but the prime minister has signaled that we are going to look at that issue,” Mr. Parker told the broadcaster.Licensed New Zealand gun owners pushed back. The Kiwi Gun Blog, a gun-rights online publication, said that among the mosque shooter’s goals, one was “to cause the gun rights of responsible New Zealanders to be attacked.” It said “our prime minister is now capitulating with him.”There is no dispute that acquiring a military-style semiautomatic weapon is relatively easy in New Zealand, where guns are plentiful. According to a 2017 small arms survey, there are more than 1.2 million firearms among the population of 4.6 million.Under New Zealand law, anyone 16 or older may seek a firearms license, and anyone 18 or older who has applied for a firearms license can seek a permit to possess a military-style semiautomatic weapon.In the United States, the National Rifle Association, a leading advocate of gun-owner rights, issued its first statement on the attack, denouncing the killer while saying nothing about the weapons used.“It doesn’t matter if these senseless tragedies occur in the United States or abroad, our deepest sympathies are with the victims and their families,” said Andrew Arulanandam, a spokesman for the group. “This was the act of a monster. To the extent the N.R.A. is ridiculed for extending our deepest sympathies to those impacted by this horrific event, we make no apologies for our thoughts, words or prayers.”At times over the years, the N.R.A. has held up New Zealand’s relatively high rate of gun ownership and low crime as proof that gun laws are misguided, but New Zealand’s laws are already more strict than the United States, which also has a higher rate of gun ownership.The N.R.A. has tracked efforts in recent years to further tighten gun laws in New Zealand.Cam Edwards, a host on NRATV, the organization’s online streaming service, blamed social media for the Christchurch massacre.“What’s really changed in our world over the last 20 years isn’t the design of firearms,” he said in a lengthy Twitter thread. “It’s the revolutionary way we have of communicating with strangers, creating online tribes and subcultures that simply didn’t exist in large numbers a generation ago.”Abdul Aziz, 48, was in the Linwood mosque praying with his four sons when he heard gunshots. He immediately knew something was wrong.Rather than running from the sound, he ran toward it and grabbed the first thing he could find — a credit card machine — and flung it at the attacker. He tried to distract the attacker in a move that many fellow worshipers have described as heroic, weaving through cars in the parking lot, attempting to draw the gunman’s attention away from the mosque.Latef Alabi, the acting imam of Linwood, told The Associated Press he believed the death toll would have been far higher at the mosque without Mr. Aziz’s actions.Mr. Aziz said he saw the attacker drop one of his guns and managed to grab it but when he pulled the trigger, the gun was empty. When the gunman went to his car, presumably to grab more ammunition, Mr. Aziz said he threw the gun at the assailant’s windshield, shattering the glass. The assailant sped away.Mr. Aziz remained humble, saying in an interview with The New York Times that anyone in his position would have done the same. “I was prepared to give my life to save another life,” he said.Originally from Kabul, Afghanistan, Mr. Aziz lived in Australia for 27 years after having fled the violence of his home country. He moved to New Zealand a few years ago, describing it as a beautiful country.New Zealand’s police commissioner, Mike Bush, provided new details of the attack on Friday night, saying that 41 people had been killed at Al Noor mosque, in the center of the city, and seven at Linwood mosque, about three miles away. Another victim died at Christchurch Hospital, he said.David Meates, the chief executive of the Canterbury District Health Board, said that 48 people, including young children, were being treated for injuries at the hospital. Mr. Bush said on Saturday morning that two of them were in critical condition.[How to help the victims of the Christchurch shootings.]The police said on Friday that three men and one woman had been taken into custody, but Mr. Bush lowered the total number to three on Saturday morning, indicating that someone had been released.In a Christchurch courtroom that was closed to the public for security reasons, police officers in bulletproof vests brought in Brenton Harrison Tarrant, who has been charged with one count of murder in connection with the massacre. The police said he would face additional charges.Mr. Tarrant, 28, short with thinning brown hair, handcuffed and wearing white prison clothing, looked around the courtroom but said nothing as District Court Judge Paul Kellar ordered him held for a further hearing on April 5.Regional officials have said that Mr. Tarrant is an Australian citizen. Court papers listed his New Zealand address as Dunedin City, which is about 280 miles south of Christchurch.Richard Peters, his court-appointed lawyer, said Mr. Tarrant had indicated he might represent himself. Asked how Mr. Tarrant had reacted to what he is facing, Mr. Peters said, “He seemed to be quite aware of where he is and what he’s doing.”At the same time the charging document for Mr. Tarrant was handed out to reporters, a second court filing was distributed that said Daniel John Burrough, 18, of Christchurch, had been charged with “intent to excite hostility or ill-will.” Court officials would not elaborate on how the two cases were related, if at all.In addition to Mr. Tarrant, three other people were arrested in connection with the attacks, although one was apparently released. Few details have been offered about them.Prime Minister Jacinda Ardern was among dozens of lawmakers and media who were emailed a white nationalist manifesto purportedly from the gunman minutes before the shootings began on Friday, her office said.Andrew Campbell, a spokesman for Ms. Ardern, said a generic email address for the prime minister was among about 70 to which the email was sent. The “vast majority” of the recipients were news outlets, and others were lawmakers, he said on Saturday.Mr. Campbell said he believed the document was the same one that has been circulating online since the attacks. He said action was taken “almost immediately” according to protocol, “by sending it to parliamentary security, who then would pass it on the police.” He did not specify whether the email had been seen or forwarded before the shooting began.On Saturday, Ms. Ardern said that the suspect held a gun license in New Zealand and that, according to what she had been told, he “was able to legally acquire the guns that he held.”He had five firearms, including two semiautomatic weapons, she said.“That will give you an indication of why we need to change our gun laws,” she said at a news conference. “Our gun laws will change — now is the time.”But Ms. Ardern did not offer specifics about how the laws might change, saying only that her cabinet would discuss the issue. Attorney General David Parker, who had appeared to tell a crowd that New Zealand would ban semiautomatic weapons, told Radio New Zealand that regulation of the guns was “one of the issues” to be considered.“Those decisions have yet to be taken but the prime minister has signaled that we are going to look at that issue,” he said.While New Zealand’s laws governing the purchase of semiautomatic firearms are more restrictive than those in the United States, the country is much freer with firearms than Australia is, allowing most guns to be purchased without requiring them to be tracked.“New Zealand is almost alone with the United States in not registering 96 percent of its firearms — and those are its most common firearms, the ones most used in crimes,” said Philip Alpers of GunPolicy.org, a clearinghouse for gun law data worldwide. “There are huge gaps in New Zealand law, even if some of its laws are strong.”Many of the people killed in the attacks were the breadwinners in their families, Ms. Ardern said after meeting with victims’ relatives on Saturday.The victims were “predominantly from the ages of 20 to 60ish — and a large number of men,” Ms. Ardern told reporters at Hagley College, a school near the hospital where family members were gathering.Ms. Ardern said a government compensation system would help families left without income. In the meantime, mosques will continue to receive police protection, she said.A 17-minute video that was streamed live on Facebook shows part of the attack.The clip, which appeared to have been taken from a helmet camera worn by the gunman, begins behind the wheel of a car. A man, whose face can occasionally be seen in the rearview mirror, drives through the streets of Christchurch before pulling up in front of Al Noor mosque, beside the sprawling Hagley Park.[Read more about the suspect, who seems to have been performing for, and inspired by, social media.]A live video posted to social media appeared to show the attack at Al Noor Mosque, where 42 people were killed. The clip appeared to have been taken from a camera worn by a gunman.3 The gunman’s video shows him driving away six minutes after the first shot.1 The gunman parked inthe alley next to the mosque,according to the live video.Al NoorMosqueDeans Ave.2 He openedfire at around1:40 p.m.Re-entered mosque and began firingResumed firingoutside the mosqueShot abystanderFirst shot firedParkedExited mosqueGot new gun fromparked carExitedmosqueDroveaway1 min.later234563 The gunman’s video shows him driving away six minutes after the first shot.1 The gunman parked inthe alley next to the mosque,according to the live video.SouthHagleyParkAl NoorMosqueDeans Ave.2 He opened fire ataround 1:40 p.m.Re-enteredmosque andbegan firingResumed firingoutside the mosqueShot abystanderFirst shot firedParkedExited mosqueGot a new gunfrom the parked carLeft mosqueDroveaway1 minute later234563 The gunman’s video shows him driving away six minutes after the first shot.1 The gunman parked inthe alley next to the mosque,according to the live video.Al NoorMosqueDeans Ave.South Hagley Park2 He opened fire ataround 1:40 p.m.Resumed firingoutside the mosqueRe-entered mosqueand began firingShot abystanderFirst shot firedParkedExited mosqueGot a new gunfrom the parked carLeft mosqueDroveaway1 minute later23456By Jin Wu and Allison McCann | Note: Times are local time.He approaches the mosque on foot, his weapon visible, and begins shooting at people at the entrance. What follows is nearly two harrowing minutes of his firing on worshipers.At one point, the gunman exits the mosque and fires in both directions down the sidewalk before returning to his car for another gun — which, like the others, was inscribed with numbers, symbols or messages. When he re-enters the mosque, he shoots several bodies at close range.After another few minutes, he returns to his vehicle and drives away.“There wasn’t even time to aim, there was so many targets,” he says at one point, as the sirens of an emergency response vehicle blare in the background.An earlier version of this article misstated a function of the International Civil Aviation Organization. While it does manage the International Convention on Civil Aviation, the agency does not have power to impose sanctions, which first must be proposed, agreed to and set in motion by sovereign states.Reporting was contributed by Charlotte Graham-McLay, Damien Cave and Jamie Tarabay from Christchurch, New Zealand; Megan Specia, Jason Bailey, Rick Gladstone and Danny Hakim from New York; Daniel Victor and Tiffany May from Hong Kong; Alan Yuhas from London; Jacqueline Williams from Sydney and Isabella Kwai from Grafton, Australia; Sheera Frenkel from San Francisco; and Jonathan Weisman from Washington.AdvertisementSupported byBy The Associated PressBERLIN — Austria's leader called Tuesday for authorities to "ruthlessly" investigate possible ties between an Austrian nationalist group and the alleged Christchurch mosque gunman, after it emerged that a prominent far-right activist in the Alpine nation had received a donation in the suspected shooter's name.Martin Sellner, head of the Identitarian Movement of Austria, said on social media that police searched his apartment Monday and seized electronic devices after he received a "disproportionately high donation" from a person named Tarrant — the same surname as the suspected Christchurch shooter.Christoph Poelzl, spokesman for Austria's Interior Ministry, confirmed Tuesday that the country's BVT domestic intelligence agency searched Sellner's apartment in Vienna at the request of prosecutors in the city of Graz."Any connection between the Christchurch attacker and members of the Identitarians in Austria needs to be comprehensively and ruthlessly investigated," Austrian Chancellor Sebastian Kurz tweeted, adding that he had spoken to Justice Minister Josef Moser about the issue."It is important that the independent justice system can use all necessary means and resources to conduct its investigation together with the security services and expose these networks," he said. "There needs to be total clarity about all extremist activities."Hansjoerg Bacher, a spokesman for Graz prosecutors, said prosecutors had stumbled across the donation as part of an existing probe against Sellner into possible financial offenses."The purpose of the investigation is to examine links between Mr. Sellner and the Christchurch attacker," Bacher told The Associated Press.He declined to confirm when the donation took place, but said it was much higher than other contributions made to Sellner or his Identitarian Movement."Most donations were in the area of two-to-three figures, whereas this donation was in the low four-figure area," Bacher told The AP. "This made it stand out, and the events in New Zealand put a face to this donation."He said the investigation against Sellner is based on Austrian anti-terror laws."We need to determine whether there is a connection and if so, whether it's criminally significant," said Bacher.Sellner denied having anything to do with the March 15 massacre, in which 50 Muslims were killed in the southern New Zealand city.Australian Brenton Tarrant was arrested within an hour of the mosque shootings and has been charged with murder."I had nothing to do with the attack," Sellner said in a video statement posted on YouTube, adding that he would donate the money to a charitable organization.He suggested the reason for the donation might have been to provoke repressive measures against "patriots."Austrian authorities said last week that the Christchurch shooter visited Austria, but declined to confirm when or whether he met with any far-right activists during his trip.Some of Tarrant's anti-Muslim views are echoed by the Identitarian Movement. The group is close to sections of the nationalist Freedom Party, which is part of the country's coalition government.AdvertisementSupported byBy The Associated PressWELLINGTON, New Zealand — New Zealand will hold a top-level inquiry into the massacre of 50 people at two Christchurch mosques that will examine what roles guns, social media and spy agencies played preceding the attacks.Prime Minister Jacinda Ardern announced Monday that it would hold a Royal Commission of Inquiry, the country's highest form of investigation."While New Zealanders and Muslim communities around the world are both grieving and showing compassion for one another, they are also quite rightly asking questions on how this terror attack was able to happen here," Ardern said.Her Cabinet had previously agreed on holding an inquiry, but had not decided what level of investigation. She said royal commissions are usually reserved for matters of the gravest public importance and that was clearly appropriate in this case. She said the exact terms of the inquiry, including its duration, would be finalized over the next two weeks."In short, the inquiry will look at what could have or should have been done to prevent the attack," Ardern said. "It will inquire into the individual and his activities before the terrorist attack, including, of course, a look at agencies."She said those agencies will include the country's domestic spy agency, the Security Intelligence Service, and its international counterpart, the Government Communications Security Bureau. Other agencies to be looked at include police, customs and immigration.A royal commission is run independently from the government and is chaired by a high-court judge. It has the power to compel witnesses to testify and organizations to hand over documents. But it remains up to the courts or government to follow through on any recommendations or findings.Australian white supremacist Brenton Tarrant, 28, has been charged with murder for the March 15 attacks. He is next due in court on April 5.Some people have already criticized New Zealand's intelligence agencies for focusing too much on perceived threats from Muslim extremists and left-wing radicals while not looking deeply enough into possible threats from nationalist groups and white supremacists."There will be a focus on whether our intelligence community was concentrating its resources appropriately and whether there were any reports that could, or should, have alerted them to this attack," Ardern said. "It is important that no stone is left unturned to get to the bottom of how this act of terrorism occurred and what, if any, opportunities we had to stop it."On Thursday, less than a week after the attack, the government announced it was rushing through new laws to ban "military-style" semi-automatic firearms and high-capacity magazines like those used by the gunman.Ardern said Monday that it was unacceptable that a disturbing video of the attack taken by the gunman and livestreamed on Facebook continued to be available on some social media platforms. She said she wanted assurances from social media leaders that something similar would never happen again.New Zealand has previously held royal commissions into the 2010 Pike River coal mine disaster and building failures during the 2011 Christchurch earthquake. It is currently holding an inquiry into historical abuse in state care.AdvertisementSupported byBy The Associated PressCHRISTCHURCH, New Zealand — A Jordanian prince and the family of a slain 3-year-old boy and were among those who visited a New Zealand mosque Saturday when it reopened for the first time since a terrorist killed dozens of people there.Hundreds of people stopped at the Al Noor mosque in Christchurch to lay flowers or pray after police removed a cordon and those running the mosque decided to reopen.Inside the mosque, there were few signs of the carnage from eight days earlier. Crews had replaced windows that worshippers smashed in a desperate attempt to escape when the attacker mowed them down during Friday prayers. Bullet holes were plastered over and painted. There wasn't time to replace the carpet, which was pulled out and buried because it was soaked in blood.Shagat Khan, the president of the Muslim Association of Canterbury, said they hadn't planned to open the mosque so soon but when they saw the crowds gathering after the police cordon was removed they decided to allow people to enter in managed groups "so the mosque will be alive again.""Those who lost their families are of course quite emotional," he said. "And those who were present here during the incident, of course the memories come back. The flashbacks."The gunman killed a total of 50 people at two mosques in Christchurch on March 15, in the nation's worst terrorist attack. Australian Brenton Tarrant, 28, has been charged with murder in the attacks and is scheduled to make his next court appearance on April 5.Abdullahi Ibrahim Diriye, the uncle of the youngest victim of the shooting, 3-year-old Mucaad Ibrahim, visited the mosque with the boy's father. Diriye said he helped lift the boy's coffin to a gravesite Friday as Mucaad's mother wept. The coffin was very light with such a young child inside, he said."Always he was a happy boy, and he liked every person he met, not only Muslims," Diriye said.Prince Hassan bin Talal of Jordan, who traveled to New Zealand to pay his respects, hugged a man at the entrance of the mosque and told him to "be patient.""He was crying deeply from his heart for a loved one he had lost," the prince later explained. "And I was saying, this is God's will, be patient. Because only through patience can you endure."Prince Hassan said in the Middle East there have been wars every decade."To feel that this form of violence and cruelty is visited on you, living in this idyllic part of the world, is deeply, deeply moving," he said.Human dignity is being assailed on all fronts by extremists, he said, and people need to stand together as human beings.Officials say four Jordanian nationals died in the attack, while a 4-year-old Jordanian girl is also recovering in an Auckland hospital.Jereeth Abdeen, who was visiting from Auckland, said a friend of his escaped the attack. He said he found it hard to walk through the mosque, especially after glimpsing the gunman's livestream of the attack after it was sent to him on social media before quickly closing out of the link."It's terrible," he said. "Nobody should do that in this world."AdvertisementSupported byBy Charlotte Graham-McLayCHRISTCHURCH, New Zealand — Prime Minister Jacinda Ardern has been the sunny face of New Zealand, celebrated as the nation’s youngest leader in 150 years, the one who gave birth in office and brought her baby to the floor of the United Nations. At 38, she’s pitched progressive politics and her nation’s charms to Stephen Colbert and the “Today” show. Vogue magazine called her the “anti-Trump.”Now, with the massacre of 50 people at two mosques by a gunman espousing anti-Muslim, anti-immigrant hatred, Ms. Ardern is back in the international spotlight, but the glamour is gone. Instead, she speaks for New Zealand at a moment of national pain, her vision of kindness in politics tested by the worst mass murder in her country’s modern history.“We represent diversity, kindness, compassion. A home for those who share our values. Refuge for those who need it,” she told reporters at Parliament as the horror of the shootings began to unfold on Friday, her words broadcast around the world even as the killer’s video and manifesto of hatred were spreading online. Ms. Ardern herself had been emailed a copy of the manifesto minutes before the massacre began.“You may have chosen us,” she said of the gunman, “but we utterly reject and condemn you.”That sentiment has echoed across New Zealand in the aftermath of the shootings. In a country of less than five million people, prized for its safety and natural beauty, people had the same refrain: Things like this do not happen here.On Saturday, thousands attended vigils and visited makeshift memorials around the country. They expressed disbelief on social media, using the hashtag #TheyAreUs to embrace the Muslim community.In Auckland, the largest city, a gathering in Aotea Square opened with a prayer for Muslims and others discriminated against around the world before the crowd sang “Stand by Me,” local news media reported. In the capital, Wellington, lampposts near the city’s largest mosque were plastered with signs.“Love and solidarity to our Muslim whanau,” the posters read, using the indigenous Maori word for family. “No room for racism here.”In Christchurch, where the massacre occurred, the tragedy drew together unlikely allies. Members of rival New Zealand gangs stood in solidarity outside Hagley College, where relatives of those dead, injured or missing gathered to console one another.“We’re here to show our support and our love,” said Karnz Vercoe, part of a group of former gang members called Tu Tangata.President Trump, who was mentioned as a source of inspiration in the manifesto believed to have been posted by the gunman, condemned the killings and called them a “horrible, disgraceful thing.” Asked by a reporter if he saw white nationalism as a rising threat around the world, Mr. Trump said: “I don’t really. I think it’s a small group of people that have very, very serious problems, I guess.”Ms. Ardern recounted on Saturday her own conversation with Mr. Trump after the attack. “He asked what support the United States could provide,” she said. “My message was: sympathy and love for all Muslim communities.”She said she had “conveyed the sentiment that I think exists here.”Aware that the eyes of the world are on New Zealand, many see Ms. Ardern as their representative for processing and reacting to the news.“Given the situation, I really don’t think anyone could do much better,” said Jordan Teheuheu, 21, who stopped at a makeshift memorial in Christchurch. “In our time of need, we need people who show who we are.”But Ms. Ardern, who took office in 2017, faces great challenges. She has promised to overhaul New Zealand’s gun laws in the wake of the attacks, though she has yet to say how and gun-rights supporters have pushed back.The Kiwi Gun Blog, an online publication, said that among the mosque shooter’s goals, one was “to cause the gun rights of responsible New Zealanders to be attacked.” It said “our prime minister is now capitulating.”A former race relations commissioner, Susan Devoy, has also called on the government to start counting instances of hate crimes, suggesting they are more common than New Zealanders like to think.“There can be no other response if we are serious about learning anything from the murders of our innocent people this week,” Ms. Devoy said.After speaking to the nation from the capital on Friday, Ms. Ardern flew to Christchurch on Saturday, accompanied by lawmakers from across the political spectrum.She was somber, dressed in black. At a meeting with Muslim leaders, for which she wore a black head scarf, Ms. Ardern asked those present what they would like her to do.“Our time is for you to determine,” she told the leaders. They wanted her to meet families of the victims, and she did.Christchurch, a city of 375,000, has faced tragedy before: It was rocked by major earthquakes in 2010 and 2011, demolishing much of the central city. The February 2011 quake killed 185 people.The city’s mental health services are still stretched to the breaking point. Just last month, Ms. Ardern promised $54 million for mental health treatment in Christchurch.Lynette Hardie Wills said people “are still suffering” after the quakes. Eight years later, she is waiting for repairs to her badly damaged home.AdvertisementSupported byBy William K. Rashbaum and Ali Watkins[What you need to know to start the day: Get New York Today in your inbox.]When a hooded gunman pumped close to a dozen bullets into Frank Cali, a reputed leader of the Gambino crime family, outside his Staten Island home on Wednesday night, detectives naturally examined the possibility that the killing may have stemmed from his role atop one of New York’s five Mafia families.But after the arrest on Saturday of a 24-year-old man who lives with his parents, it appears the old-school crime figure may have been the victim of an angry young man with a gun and a grudge, but apparently no mob ties.Some law enforcement officials have said they are looking at the possibility that the alleged killer, Anthony A. Comello, had a romantic interest in one of Mr. Cali’s female relatives, and that the crime boss had told him to stay away. But the Police Department’s chief of detectives, Dermot F. Shea, said the motive was still unclear, and detectives were examining “multiple angles.”Mr. Comello’s arrest was in some ways a sign of the times in an era when the city’s mob clans have become accustomed to a smaller, less powerful role in the criminal and economic culture. Weakened over several decades by a campaign of prosecutions, the Mafia has become less likely to resort to violence, even as gun violence and mass shootings have become a common occurrence in the United States.Mr. Comello was arrested at a home owned by his family in Brick, N.J., on Saturday and is being held in the Ocean County jail. He is expected to be returned to Staten Island, where prosecutors have already prepared murder charges, according to a computerized court database. On Sunday afternoon, the police had blocked off all foot and car traffic on the roadway near the New Jersey home.Efforts to reach a lawyer for Mr. Comello were unsuccessful, and a family member declined to comment.Detectives have a recording of the killing from a security camera outside Mr. Cali’s home, and Mr. Comello’s fingerprints matched those that were lifted from a license plate the gunman picked up and handed to Mr. Cali before opening fire, according to the police.Mr. Comello, a 2012 graduate of Tottenville High School, lived with his parents in the Eltingville section of Staten Island, neighbors said.“He would plow the snow for us,” said Victor Ujeck, a neighbor. “I’ve seen his parents numerous times — also very nice people.”“I would never imagine he could have done this,” Mr. Ujeck added. “I was shocked.”Didar Janid, 46, works in the Campos deli a few blocks from the suspect’s home on Staten Island and said he had known Mr. Comello for about eight years. Mr. Comello would stop by every couple weeks to buy Marlboro cigarettes, Mr. Janid said.“He was a little bit aggressive,” Mr. Janid said, adding “a little loud.”But he was mellowing, Mr. Janid said, and the accusations he now faces stunned the shopkeeper.“I didn’t see nothing abnormal when I saw him,” he said. “I can’t think even that he could be doing this.”From the start, the shooting bore few of the hallmarks of a Mafia assassination, which generally involves a team of assassins and multiple cars to make a quick escape.But the attacker is suspected of driving a pickup truck to Mr. Cali’s home in the Todt Hill section of Staten Island, a neighborhood of narrow winding streets filled with police surveillance cameras and license plate readers. The truck was then backed into Mr. Cali’s Cadillac Escalade, a collision that knocked off a license plate, police officials said on Saturday.He then rang the doorbell of Mr. Cali’s home, allowing the surveillance camera to capture an image of his face, the police said.Mr. Cali came out to the street to talk, and after a minute of conversation, the gunman pulled out a 9-millimeter pistol and fired repeatedly into Mr. Cali’s body, mortally wounding him as he apparently tried to crawl to safety beneath the pickup truck.The killing of a Gambino crime family senior leader — a Sicilian-born Old World mob figure who the authorities have said was respected as a force on both sides of the Atlantic — in a wealthy part of Staten Island initially sent a seismic jolt through the underworld and in law enforcement.But any fear that these were the first shots in a either bloody war between Mafia families or a bitter internecine conflict within the Gambino clan appear to be short-lived. Nonetheless, Chief Shea emphasized that detectives were still working to determine a clear motive.“Let me reiterate: This is far from over. We are at the beginning stages of this investigation,” he said at a news briefing at 1 Police Plaza.Police and court officials said on Sunday that it was unclear whether Mr. Comello would waive extradition from New Jersey, or when he would be returned to Staten Island to be arraigned.The entry in the New York State Court database that on Saturday listed the charges against him and other details of his case said his next court appearance would be before Justice Charles M. Troia, of State Supreme Court in Staten Island. But by Sunday morning, the entire entry had been removed without explanation.Reporting was contributed by Ashley Southall, Laura Dimon, Sean Piccoli and Karen DeMasters.AdvertisementSupported byBy Charlotte Graham-McLayCHRISTCHURCH, New Zealand — Lamenting that “the world has been stuck in a vicious cycle of extremism breeding extremism,” Prime Minister Jacinda Ardern of New Zealand said at a national memorial service for the Christchurch attack victims on Friday that the dangerous cycle “must end.”Ms. Ardern’s call for a collective global response to violence and terrorism — based in “our humanity” — came two weeks after a gunman killed 50 worshipers in attacks on two mosques in the city.Her speech reflected questions that New Zealanders have been wrestling with as the shock of the attack has begun to fade: namely, how deeply extremist sentiments have taken root in the country, and how to prevent such violence from happening again.“The ugliest of viruses can exist in places they are not welcome,” Ms. Ardern said, adding that racism, violence, extremism and assaults on freedom of worship were “not welcome here.”An estimated 20,000 people attended the event in Hagley Park, not far from one of the mosques that were targeted on March 15. Security was tight; buses were used to block off all nearby roads, with cordons guarded by armed police units and officers circulating through the crowd. While the service was broadcast at simultaneous events around New Zealand, some gatherings were canceled amid security fears and overstretched police resources.Amid the hard questions at the service, there was also celebration of survival — and faith. Fariz Ahmed, a wheelchair-bound man whose wife, Husna Ahmed, ran back into Al Noor mosque in hope of saving him and was killed, spoke on behalf of those in the mosques who lived through the attack.“I cannot deny the fact that he is my human brother,” Mr. Ahmed said of the man who killed his wife. “I do not hate him. I cannot hate him. I cannot hate anyone.”Along with dignitaries from 59 countries — including Australia’s prime minister, Scott Morrison — the survivors and families of the victims sat in a fenced-off area at the front of the event. Some could not attend, including 22 victims of the attacks who remain hospitalized as they recover from injuries.For some, the memorial service came as their extended families — who had traveled to Christchurch from around the world — began to depart, leaving them to confront new realities.The evening before the service, Ambreen Naeem sat in the living room of her sister’s home in suburban Christchurch as cooking smells lingered and her 5-year-old son played nearby. Friends dropped by with about 20 meals for the family’s freezer.One important task for Ms. Naeem, 44, will be learning to drive. Both her husband, Naeem Rashid, 51, and her eldest son, Talha Naeem, 21, were killed at Al Noor mosque. Mr. Rashid, a university lecturer, has become known for having tried to wrestle the gunman’s weapon from him.“He had a true faith and a love for people throughout his life,” Ms. Naeem said.After Friday’s service, some in the crowd wandered across the park to Al Noor mosque, where mounds of flowers, paper garlands and mementos encircled trees and sat piled against the mosque’s front fence.As usual, worshipers were arriving for Friday Prayer; it was the first held at the mosque since the terror attack, and everything was different. Armed police officers guarded a closed gate, and members of the public stood outside reading notes and tributes.Habib Ullah, one of the worshipers, said the main room of the mosque was still being refurbished — carpet had not yet been laid — but people still turned out for prayer. There was a sense of family, but a sense, too, that the survivors of the attacks had much more left to face.“They will need everything,” said Mr. Ullah, a member of Christchurch’s Pakistani community who has been helping organize assistance for the victims’ families. “They will need thousands and thousands of things.”Nine Pakistani nationals were killed in the attack, and Mr. Ullah said most were men between the ages of 30 and 40 who had children.Among the chief concerns of their widows, he said, were paying rent, finding means of income, and clarifying their status as immigrants — all of which the government has promised assistance for.However, some did not know enough English to fill out government forms and did not have access to their husbands’ bank accounts. The Muslim Association of Canterbury was forming a group at the Al Noor mosque to connect families with services.Mustafa Farouk, the president of the Federation of Islamic Associations of New Zealand, said Muslim communities consumed by both grief and gratitude for New Zealanders’ response to the attacks must now have a difficult conversation with the rest of the country.“We will get down to our really serious business of how we can make sure this doesn’t happen in our country again,” he said. “There’s an underbelly of some kind of racism that exists, but we want to collectively stamp it out.”Ms. Ardern on Monday announced a major investigation into the terrorist attack, with government agencies — including those responsible for security — among those under scrutiny. Questions will include whether New Zealand’s spy agencies had Muslim communities under closer examination than white nationalist groups.She has also taken steps to overhaul New Zealand’s gun laws and demanded actions from the social media platforms where the alleged gunman, Brenton Tarrant, was able to stream footage of the attack.But she has urged New Zealanders, too, to confront racism where they see it.“We each hold the power, in our words and in our actions, in our daily acts of kindness,” she told the crowd at Hagley Park, adding that that the legacy of the attack should be “to be the nation we believe ourselves to be.”AdvertisementSupported byBy Richard Pйrez-Peсa and Claire MosesThe Dutch police said on Tuesday that they were still considering terrorism as a motive for a deadly shooting on a tram in the city of Utrecht based partly on a note they discovered.The shooting on Monday, which left at least three people dead and seven injured, and an ensuing manhunt prompted heightened security and sent ripples of fear through the Netherlands. A 37-year-old immigrant from Turkey was arrested Monday night.People who know the suspect, Gokmen Tanis, and family members in Turkey quoted by news organizations there, had said on Monday that they believed the assault grew out of some kind of domestic dispute.But the police said they had so far found no links between Mr. Tanis and the three people killed on the tram.“Thus far, a terrorist motive is being strongly considered,” the national police said on Tuesday.“The reason for this, among other things, is a note found in the getaway car,” they said, without elaboration. “Other motives aren’t being ruled out. These are being investigated as well.”The shooting jarred a country where gun violence is rare, and where there has not been the kinds of major terrorist attacks that have rocked Belgium, Britain, France and Germany in recent years. It came just days after a gunman, thought to be a white nationalist, killed 50 people at two mosques in Christchurch, New Zealand, prompting fears of either copycat attacks against Muslims or retaliatory attacks by them.The police said on Tuesday that they had found a firearm when Mr. Tanis was arrested. They did not say what kind of gun it was, or whether it was the weapon used in the attack.Mr. Tanis had been arrested several times before and was facing a rape charge. People who knew him from the Kanaleneiland neighborhood of Utrecht, home to many immigrants from Turkey and Morocco, described him as erratic, troubled and aggressive.Bart Nitrauw, a spokesman for the local prosecutor’s office, said in a phone interview: “We can’t say anything about what was in the letter, just that it was one of the reasons for the suspicion of a terror motive — the letter in the car, and what we found at the place where the suspect was arrested.”“In this stage of the investigation, we think it was one shooter,” Mr. Nitrauw said.The Utrecht shooting took place around 10:30 a.m. near 24 October Square, and the gunman fled. The police said the theft of a car at gunpoint nearby was tied to the attack, but the details were unclear.Three people — a 19-year-old woman and two men, ages 28 and 49 — were killed in the attack, and seven others were injured, three of them seriously. Officials have not publicly identified any of the victims.Unsure of the motive, how many people were involved, or where the killer was, the authorities quickly ramped up security and raised the terrorist threat assessment in Utrecht Province to the highest level. For several hours, the tram service was shut down around Utrecht, people were told to remain indoors, schools were locked down and officers in body armor were deployed to police stations, airports and other key locations.In addition to Mr. Tanis, two men in their 20s were arrested on Monday in connection with the shooting, but the police acknowledged that it was not clear what role, if any, they may have played in it. They said on Tuesday that the men, whom they did not identify, were still in custody and were being questioned. Another man was arrested on Tuesday night.Patrick Kingsley contributed reporting.AdvertisementSupported byBy ReutersWASHINGTON — The U.S. Supreme Court on Thursday handed President Donald Trump a victory by rejecting for the second time in three days a bid by gun rights activists to block his new ban on "bump stock" attachments that enable semi-automatic weapons to fire rapidly.The policy, embraced by Trump in the wake of an October 2017 massacre in Las Vegas in which bump stocks were used, went into effect on Tuesday. The ban is a rare recent instance of gun control at the federal level in a country that has experienced a succession of mass shootings.The court in a brief order refused to grant a temporary stay sought by the group Gun Owners of America and others in a lawsuit filed in Michigan challenging the ban while litigation continues. Chief Justice John Roberts on Tuesday rejected a similar bid to block the policy in a separate legal challenge brought in Washington by individual gun owners and gun rights groups including the Firearms Policy Foundation and Florida Carry Inc. Michael Hammond, Gun Owners of America's legislative counsel, said many owners of the estimated 500,000 bump stocks in the United States would refuse to turn them in despite the ban and related criminal penalties. People caught in possession of bump stocks could face up to 10 years in prison under the policy."GOA will continue to fight the issue in the court system, as the case now returns to the lower courts. We remain convinced that the courts will consign this unlawful, unconstitutional ban to the trash bin of history, where it belongs," Hammond said in a statement, using the group's acronym.A Justice Department spokeswoman said the administration was pleased with the high court's action.Bump stocks use a gun's recoil to bump its trigger, enabling a semiautomatic weapon to fire hundreds of rounds per minute, which can transform it into a machine gun. The Justice Department's regulation followed the lead of many states and retailers that imposed stricter limits on sales of guns and accessories after a deadly shooting at a Florida high school in February 2018.LAS VEGAS SHOOTINGTrump pledged to ban bump stocks soon after a gunman used them in a spree that killed 58 people at a country music festival in Las Vegas. The Justice Department on Dec. 18 announced plans to implement the policy on March 26.The FBI said in January it had found no clear motive for the 64-year-old Las Vegas gunman, Stephen Paddock, in the deadliest mass shooting in modern U.S. history.In the Michigan case, a federal judge already has ruled in favor of the administration. The Cincinnati, Ohio-based 6th U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals refused to put the ban on hold pending appeal. Other plaintiffs in that case include the Gun Owners Foundation, the Virginia Citizens Defense League and three individual gun owners.In the Washington case, a federal judge also upheld the ban, prompting the gun rights advocates to appeal to the U.S. Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit. That court has heard oral arguments but has not yet ruled.Those challenging the policy have argued that the U.S. Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives (ATF) lacks the authority to equate bump stocks with machine guns. One of the laws at the center of the legal dispute was written more than 80 years ago, when Congress restricted access to machine guns during the heyday of American gangsters' use of "tommy guns."AdvertisementSupported byBy The Associated PressLOS ANGELES — The Latest on the shooting death of rapper Nipsey Hussle (all times local):10:45 p.m.Los Angeles police have identified a suspect in the killing of rapper Nipsey Hussle.Police say they are looking for 29-year-old Eric Holder, who is suspected of shooting Hussle Sunday afternoon outside his clothing store in South Los Angeles.A news release states detectives suspect that Holder fled in a 2016 Chevy Cruze that was waiting in an adjacent alley. The car's license plate is 7RJD742.Los Angeles Police Chief Michel Moore plans a news conference for Tuesday morning to discuss updates in the investigation.___10:20 p.m.Authorities now say a total of 19 people have been taken to hospitals — two in critical condition — after a vigil for slain rapper Nipsey Hussle turned violent.Police say 300 to 400 people were at the scene where Hussle was gunned down when a fight erupted in the crowd Monday night.Earlier reports of gunshots were false but many people were trampled as the crowd ran away.Fire Department spokeswoman Margaret Stewart says 19 people were taken to hospitals. Two were critical: a person who was struck by a car and another person with a "penetrating injury," although it's unclear whether that person was stabbed or cut by broken glass. Two other injuries were serious and 15 were considered non-life threatening.Dozens of police moved in to clear the crowd.___9:05 p.m.A vigil at the Los Angeles site where rapper Nipsey Hussle was killed has turned violent and authorities are treating several people after a possible attack that stampeded the crowd.Fire Department spokeswoman Margaret Stewart says firefighters received a report Monday night of a possible shooting or stabbing and found one person critically wounded.She says several other people are being examined and appear to have sustained "trample" injuries as the crowd ran away.KCAL-TV showed police carrying a man to an ambulance.Police then moved in in force and dispersed a large crowd that had gathered outside Hussle's South Los Angeles clothing store, where the 33-year-old was killed and two others injured by a gunman Sunday.The killer remains at large.___3 p.m.Investigators say rapper Nipsey Hussle died from gunshot wounds to his head and torso.The Los Angeles County coroner released the findings after completing an autopsy Monday on Hussle, whose real name is Ermias Asghedom.The autopsy ruled Hussle's death a homicide.The 33-year-old was standing outside the clothing store he opened in the Los Angeles neighborhood Sunday afternoon where he grew up when a gunman opened fire, killing him and injuring two others.Police have not announced any arrests or identified any suspects in the case.Hussle was a beloved figure both his neighborhood and the hip-hop community, and his death brought mourning and tributes from politicians , musicians and professional athletes.___1:20 p.m.Nipsey Hussle is being mourned for much more than his music.The rapper was shot and killed Sunday in the same Los Angeles neighborhood where he grew up. California Sen. Kamala Harris and LA Mayor Eric Garcetti are among those paying tribute to him for his efforts to improve the impoverished Crenshaw community.Hussle opened a store called Marathon Clothing that he hoped could be a seed for development. He was standing near the business when he was slain. Police have not identified a motive or suspect.AdvertisementSupported byThe ShiftBy Kevin RooseBefore entering a mosque in Christchurch, New Zealand, the site of one of the deadliest mass murders in the country’s history, a gunman paused to endorse a YouTube star in a video that appeared to capture the shooting.“Remember, lads, subscribe to PewDiePie,” he said.To an untrained eye, this would have seemed like a bizarre detour.But the people watching the video stream recognized it as something entirely different: a meme.Like many of the things done before the attack on Friday — like the posting of a 74-page manifesto that named a specific internet figure — the PewDiePie endorsement served two purposes. For followers of the killer’s videostream, it was a kind of satirical Easter egg. “Subscribe to PewDiePie,” which began as a grass-roots online attempt to keep the popular YouTube entertainer from being dethroned as the site’s most-followed account, has morphed into a kind of all-purpose cultural bat signal for the young and internet-absorbed.For everyone else, it was a booby trap, a joke designed to ensnare unsuspecting people and members of the media into taking it too literally. The goal, if there was one, may have been to pull a popular internet figure into a fractious blame game and inflame political tensions everywhere. In a tweet early Friday morning, PewDiePie, whose real name is Felix Kjellberg, said, “I feel absolutely sickened having my name uttered by this person.”New Zealand authorities have identified an accused gunman as Brenton Harrison Tarrant, 28, but it remains unclear if he acted alone.The details that have emerged about the Christchurch shooting — at least 49 were killed in an attack on two mosques — are horrifying. But a surprising thing about it is how unmistakably online the violence was, and how aware the shooter on the videostream appears to have been about how his act would be viewed and interpreted by distinct internet subcultures.In some ways, it felt like a first — an internet-native mass shooting, conceived and produced entirely within the irony-soaked discourse of modern extremism.The attack was teased on Twitter, announced on the online message board 8chan and broadcast live on Facebook. The footage was then replayed endlessly on YouTube, Twitter and Reddit, as the platforms scrambled to take down the clips nearly as fast as new copies popped up to replace them. In a statement on Twitter, Facebook said it had “quickly removed both the shooter’s Facebook and Instagram accounts and the video,” and was taking down instances of praise or support for the shooting. YouTube said it was “working vigilantly to remove any violent footage” of the attack. Reddit said in a statement that it was taking down “content containing links to the video stream or manifesto.”transcriptHosted by Michael Barbaro, produced by Annie Brown, Paige Cowett, Michael Simon Johnson and Jonathan Wolfe, and edited by Lisa TobinOne of the deadliest mass shootings in the country’s history bore the stamp of online extremism.michael barbaroFrom The New York Times, I’m Michael Barbaro. This is “The Daily.” Today: The death toll from a mass shooting targeting Muslims in New Zealand rose from 49 to 50 over the weekend, after officials found another body at the Al Noor Mosque, where most of the deaths occurred. Kevin Roose on why this attack was made by and for the internet. It’s Monday, March 18.archived recording 1Farid, would you mind just telling us one more time of what happened in the mosque?archived recording (farid ahmed)When shooting started, it started from the hallway. So I could hear, so [IMITATING GUNFIRE] Then magazine is finished. Then he refill again and came back again.archived recording 2I saw all the plastering coming down from the wall and the ceiling.archived recording 3O.K.archived recording 4And that was when I knew it was from the gun shot. So immediately —archived recording 5When he was shooting at me — and there’s a fence here. He was shooting at me. I ducked here and I come here. And I find the gun somewhere here and a dead body here as well.archived recording 6I feel now — I repeated the story a lot. But this is a good idea to say that —michael barbaroOver the weekend, through dozens of interviews with survivors, a story began to emerge of what happened on Friday inside the mosques in Christchurch.archived recording 1Was that your regular mosque or were you visiting that mosque?archived recording (farid ahmed)Regular mosque. Yeah.michael barbaroThe shooting began at the Al Noor Mosque, where Farid Ahmed and his wife, Husna, who had moved to New Zealand from Bangladesh, were attending afternoon prayer.archived recording (farid ahmed)The ladies’ room was on the right-hand side. So all the ladies were there. And my wife is always a leading person for ladies. She had a philosophy. She always used to tell me, I don’t want to hold any position. And I want to prove that you don’t need to have any position to help people. She was like a magnet. And exactly the same thing happened. The shooting started. She started instructing several ladies and children to get out. And she was screaming, Come this way, hurry up,” this and that. You know, she was doing all these things. And then she took many children and ladies into a safe garden. Then she was coming back, checking about me, because I was in the wheelchair.archived recordingDo you mind me asking why you’re in a wheelchair?archived recording (farid ahmed)I was run over by a car. He was the drunk driver. And it was 1998 and it happened.archived recordingI’m sorry.archived recording (farid ahmed)It’s O.K.archived recordingSo she went out of the mosque and then she came back in?archived recording (farid ahmed)Yeah. She was coming back. And once she was approaching the gate, then she was shot.archived recordingShe came back into to fetch you?archived recording (farid ahmed)Yes. Yes.michael barbaroFarid learned hours later that Husna was one of the 42 people police say were killed at the mosque.archived recording (farid ahmed)So she was busy with saving lives, you know, forgetting about herself. And that’s what she is. She always has been like this.michael barbaroSix minutes after firing the first shot, and as police raced toward Al Noor Mosque, the shooter drove to a second mosque, the Linwood Mosque, four miles east.damien caveAnd tell me — I’m sorry, what was your name?abdul azizAbdul Aziz.damien caveAnd the mosque that you go to, is it mixed, Pakistani? I mean, that mosque — who was there that day?abdul azizThat mosque, we got from every race, from Malaysia, from Philippines, from Afghanistan, from every sort of country.michael barbaroMy colleague Damien Cave spoke with Abdul Aziz, who was praying at the Linwood Mosque with his four sons when he heard gunshots. Aziz ran toward the shots, grabbing the first thing he could find, a credit card machine, which he flung at the attacker. The shooter dropped a gun, and Aziz picked it up.abdul azizAnd I pick up the gun and I checked that it had no bullets. And I was screaming to the guy, “Come here! I’m here.” I just wanted to put more focus on me than go inside the masjid. But unfortunately he just got himself to the masjid, and I heard more shooting sound. And I see the shooting inside the masjid.michael barbaroMoments later, when the gunman went to his car to retrieve more weapons, Aziz followed him.abdul azizThis guy tried to get more gun from his car. When he see me, I’m chasing with the gun. He sat on his car. And I just got that gun and throw in his window like an arrow and blast his window. And he thought I probably shot him or something. And the guns come back and just, he drives off.michael barbaroAziz used the gun to shatter the gunman’s car window, which many witnesses believe is what prompted him to speed away rather than re-enter the mosque and kill more people.abdul azizAny brother would do the same thing. So if you was there, you would do the same thing.damien caveHave you — can I ask you —michael barbaroMinutes later, video shows the suspect being pulled by police from his car two and a half miles down the road, where two more guns and homemade explosives were also found.archived recording (jacinda ardern)I want to speak specifically about the firearms used in this terrorist act. They were two semi-automatic weapons and two shotguns.michael barbaroOn Sunday, New Zealand’s prime minister, Jacinda Ardern, said that the suspect, an Australian citizen, would be tried in New Zealand, and that her government would meet today to discuss the country’s gun laws.archived recording (jacinda ardern)I can tell you one thing right now. Our gun laws will change.michael barbaroFunerals for all 50 victims are expected to be held in the coming days.archived recording (jacinda ardern)As the police commissioner confirmed this morning, 50 people have been killed and 34 people remain in Christchurch Hospital, 12 of them in the intensive care unit in critical condition. A 4-year-old girl remains in critical condition at Starship Hospital in Auckland.michael barbaroIslamic burial rituals typically require bodies to be buried as soon as possible, and usually within 24 hours. But New Zealand authorities say that the process of identifying the victims and returning them to their families could take several more days.archived recording (jacinda ardern)It is the expectation that all bodies will be returned to families by Wednesday. I want to finish by saying that while the nation grapples with a form of grief and anger that we have not experienced before, we are seeking answers.michael barbaroKevin, I want to talk to you about the moments before this mass shooting began. What do you know about those?kevin rooseWell, what we know comes from a video that was live-streamed on Facebook while this was all happening by the gunman. He taped himself in the car on his way over to the mosque, listening to music, talking. And right before he gets out of the car and goes into the mosque, he pauses and says, “Remember, lads, subscribe to PewDiePie.” And when I heard that, I just, like, I knew, oh, this is something different than we’re used to.michael barbaroWhat do you mean? What is PewDiePie, and why does that reference matter?kevin rooseSo PewDiePie is this really popular YouTube personality. He has the most subscribers of anyone on YouTube. Some people think he’s offensive. Some people really like him. He’s got this whole fan base. And a few months ago, his fans started sort of spamming this phrase, “subscribe to PewDiePie,” in an attempt to kind of keep him from being eclipsed by another account that was going to have more followers than him.michael barbaroO.K.kevin rooseSo it sort of became this competition, and then it became this joke. And now “subscribe to PewDiePie” is just kind of like a thing that people say on certain parts of the internet. It’s just kind of like a signifier, like, I understand the internet, you understand the internet. This is how we’re going to signal to each other that we understand the internet.michael barbaroO.K. And this is what he’s signaling in saying that?kevin rooseYeah. So I have that in my head. And then I see all these other signs that something is weirdly kind of internet-y about all of this. Like, there’s this post on 8chan, which is kind of like a scummy message board that lots of extremists and weirdos go on. And in the post, the gunman links to the Facebook stream before it happens.michael barbaroThe Facebook stream that he will record of the massacre itself.kevin rooseExactly. And then he pastes a bunch of links to copies of his manifesto. He has a 74-page manifesto that he wrote. And some of this stuff was fairly standard hard-right ideology, very fascist, very white nationalist. Muslims are kind of like the primary target for white nationalists around the world, calling them invaders, saying they’re taking over. You know, this is a sort of classic white nationalist trope. And then there was all this kind of meta-humor, saying that he was radicalized by video games, which is another thing that internet extremists love to sort of troll the media with. Like, you know, he posted previews of his gun on Twitter. The whole thing just kind of felt like it just set this shooting up as, like, almost an internet performance, like it was native to the internet, and it was born out of and aimed into this culture of extremely concentrated internet radicalism.michael barbaroBut underneath it all is white nationalism, white supremacy, whatever you want to call it, a kind of racism that has always existed. So why does the internet’s role in this feel especially different to you?kevin rooseI want to make clear that this is not just a tech story, right. There’s a real core of anti-Muslim violence here, Islamophobia, far-right ideology. That’s all very, very important, and we should focus there. But I think there’s this other piece that we really need to start grappling with as a society, which is that there’s an entire generation of people who have been exposed to radical extremist politics online, who have been fed a steady diet of this stuff. It’s transformed by the tools that the internet provides. So I’ve talked to a lot of white nationalists, unfortunately. And when I asked them how they got into this, a lot of them will say, I found a couple of videos on YouTube. And then I found some more videos on YouTube, and it kind of started opening my eyes to this ideology. And pretty soon, you’re a white nationalist. And that’s different from, historically, how extremism has been born. I mean —michael barbaroWhat do you mean?kevin rooseYou know, if you go to the library and you take out a book about World War II, right as you’re about to finish it, the librarian doesn’t say, here, here’s a copy of “Mein Kampf.” You might like this. There’s not this kind of algorithmic nudge toward the extremes that really exists on social media and has a demonstrated effect on people.michael barbaroWalk me through this algorithmic nudge. I want to make sure I understand what you’re referring to.kevin rooseThis is pretty specific to YouTube, but that’s where a lot of this stuff happens. So on YouTube there’s this recommendations bar. And after a video plays, another one follows it. And historically, the way that this algorithm that chose which video came next worked is it would try to keep you on the site for as long as possible, try to maximize the number of videos you watch, the amount of time you spent, which would maximize the ad revenue. Right. It would maximize lots of things. And so it turned out that what kept people on the site for longer and longer periods of time was gradually moving them toward more extreme content. You start at a video about spaceships, and you’d end on something that was questioning whether the moon landing was a hoax. Or you’d start at a video about some piece of U.S. history and, you know, five videos later you’re at kind of a 9/11 conspiracy theory video. Just these kind of gradual tugs toward the stuff that the algorithm decides is going to keep you hooked. And in a lot of cases, that means making it a little more extreme.michael barbaroAnd what’s the white nationalist version of this nudge?kevin rooseThere’s a ton of white nationalism on YouTube. YouTube, from the conversations I’ve had with people in this movement, is sort of central to how these ideas spread. Like, you start watching some videos about politics. Maybe they’re about Trump. Then you start watching some videos by sort of more fringey, kind of far-right characters, and all of a sudden you are watching someone’s video who is espousing open white nationalism. And you’re not exactly sure how you got there, but you keep watching. And for some percentage of people, you internalize that.michael barbaroSo it’s a kind of computer-driven on-ramp or onboarding.kevin rooseYeah. And this has been studied. Like, this is a well-documented phenomenon, and YouTube has done some things to try to fix the algorithm and make it so that it’s not sending you down these rabbit holes. But it’s still a pretty observable effect.michael barbaroAnd what’s your understanding of why these platforms didn’t act years ago to police, to delete these hate-filled videos, this content that through these algorithmic nudges you described directs people further and further towards extremism?kevin rooseThey had no reason to. I mean, they were making a lot of money. They saw their responsibility as providing a platform for free speech. They were very hesitant to kind of seem like they were censoring certain political views. They were committed to free speech. And I think that’s kind of the original sin that’s baked into all of this. It’s like, part of how this was born is this idea that we just provide the platform, and if people signal to us that they like something, we’ll show them more of it. And maybe we’ll show them something that pushes the envelope a little bit more. And we’re not optimizing for truth. We’re not optimizing for things that we think are healthy for people. We’re just giving them what they want. And they’re trying to change that now, some of them. There’s a reckoning now where these platforms have come to understand that this is the role that they’ve played and that they’re trying to correct it. But there’s a lot of people who have already been sucked up into this world, who have been radicalized, and who may not be coming back. It’s going to be very, very tricky to slow the thing that has been set into motion. And I don’t even know if it’s possible.michael barbaroAt this point.kevin rooseYeah. These platforms played a pivotal role, have played, are playing a pivotal role in how these extremist groups gather momentum and share their ideas and coalesce into real movements and grow. And, like, that’s the part that I don’t think they’ve completely reckoned with, and I don’t think we’ve completely reckoned with. I think we’re still sort of coming to terms with the fact that there’s this pipeline for extremism. And we know how it runs. We know where it happens. We know who’s involved. And we know that sometimes it has these devastating, tragic consequences. What I’ve been thinking is just how inevitable this feels.michael barbaroWhat do you mean?kevin rooseI’ve been watching these people in these kind of dark corners of the internet multiplying and hardening and becoming more extreme, and, like, it was inevitable. This is the nightmare. Right? This is the worst possible version of something that could happen and be broadcast on the internet. And it’s not getting better. And it’s going to be with us for a long time.michael barbaroBut it also strikes me that in a way, and in a pretty awful way, this gunman and the way he has approached this massacre is kind of reflecting back how the internet functions. Because I’m thinking about him making a video of this attack, which, in a sense, means he’s making content that feeds that loop that we’re discussing, perhaps feeds this algorithm that possibly fed him — that he’s basically putting something back into the system.kevin rooseYeah. And I saw this happening on these platforms, like, in real time. So —michael barbaroYou mean on Friday?kevin rooseYeah. So if you went onto 8chan, which is the website where all the stuff was posted, the comments below this post were all about, let’s save these videos so that we can re-upload them somewhere else —michael barbaroWow.kevin roose— in case 8chan gets taken down. Let’s spread this. Let’s seed this all over the internet. I mean, there’s no doubt in my mind that this guy was very aware of how his video and his manifesto would kind of filter through the internet and get refracted and picked up and analyzed. This was a very deliberate act, not only of murder and violence, but also of media creation. I mean, this was, in a way, engineered for internet virality.michael barbaroAnd then it did go viral.kevin rooseYes. Twitter and Facebook and YouTube, all the platforms, tried to take down the video as soon as it popped up, but it just kept popping back up. It’s very hard to contain. So it’s still out there. I mean, yeah, I’m looking at, right now, something posted, you know, six hours ago. It’s the video of the shooting, and it’s still up. And I don’t think it’ll ever fully disappear.michael barbaroKevin, thank you very much.kevin rooseThank you.Even the language used to describe the attack before the fact framed it as an act of internet activism. In a post on 8chan, the shooting was referred to as a “real life effort post.” An image was titled “screw your optics,” a reference to a line posted by the man accused in the Pittsburgh synagogue shooting that later became a kind of catchphrase among neo-Nazis. And the manifesto — a wordy mixture of white nationalist boilerplate, fascist declarations and references to obscure internet jokes — seems to have been written from the bottom of an algorithmic rabbit hole.It would be unfair to blame the internet for this. Motives are complex, lives are complicated, and we don’t yet know all the details about the shooting. Anti-Muslim violence is not an online phenomenon, and white nationalist hatred long predates 4Chan and Reddit.But we do know that the design of internet platforms can create and reinforce extremist beliefs. Their recommendation algorithms often steer users toward edgier content, a loop that results in more time spent on the app, and more advertising revenue for the company. Their hate speech policies are weakly enforced. And their practices for removing graphic videos — like the ones that circulated on social media for hours after the Christchurch shooting, despite the companies’ attempts to remove them — are inconsistent at best.We also know that many recent acts of offline violence bear the internet’s imprint. Robert Bowers, the man charged with killing 11 people and wounding six others at the Tree of Life synagogue in Pittsburgh, was a frequent user of Gab, a social media platform beloved by extremists. Cesar Sayoc, the man charged with sending explosives to prominent critics of President Trump last year, was immersed in a cesspool of right-wing Facebook and Twitter memes.People used to conceive of “online extremism” as distinct from the extremism that took form in the physical world. If anything, the racism and bigotry on internet message boards felt a little less dangerous than the prospect of Ku Klux Klan marches or skinhead rallies.[Read about the challenges of reporting on a shooting that was set up “as almost an internet performance.”]Now, online extremism is just regular extremism on steroids. There is no offline equivalent of the experience of being algorithmically nudged toward a more strident version of your existing beliefs, or having an invisible hand steer you from gaming videos to neo-Nazism. The internet is now the place where the seeds of extremism are planted and watered, where platform incentives guide creators toward the ideological poles, and where people with hateful and violent beliefs can find and feed off one another.So the pattern continues. People become fluent in the culture of online extremism, they make and consume edgy memes, they cluster and harden. And once in a while, one of them erupts.In the coming days, we should attempt to find meaning in the lives of the victims of the Christchurch attack, and not glorify the attention-grabbing tactics of the gunman. We should also address the specific horror of anti-Muslim violence.At the same time, we need to understand and address the poisonous pipeline of extremism that has emerged over the past several years, whose ultimate effects are impossible to quantify but clearly far too big to ignore. It’s not going away, and it’s not particularly getting better. We will feel it for years to come.Kevin Roose is a columnist for Business and a writer-at-large for The New York Times Magazine. His column, “The Shift,” examines the intersection of technology, business and culture. @kevinroose • FacebookAdvertisementSupported byBy Alan FeuerA huge bonfire was burning at Joaquнn Guzmбn Loera’s mountain hide-out one night when the crime lord’s bodyguards brought him two enemy soldiers slumped across the backs of two A.T.V.s. The men — members of the Zetas, a rival cartel — had been tortured for hours and many of their bones had already been broken. The soldiers, as listless as “rag dolls,” according to a gunman who was there, could barely move.In the glow of the firelight, Mr. Guzmбn ordered the Zetas to be placed beside the flames and then approached them with a rifle. Pressing its barrel to the first man’s head, the kingpin cursed the soldier’s mother and abruptly pulled the trigger. After he had done the same to the second, he ordered his assassins to dispose of the bodies.“Put them in the bonfire,” the gunman recalled Mr. Guzmбn saying. “I don’t want any bones to remain.”This morbid story was recounted on Thursday by Isaias Valdez Rios, a former cartel killer, at Mr. Guzmбn’s drug trial in New York. Though dozens of murders have been described in court since the trial began 10 weeks ago, Judge Brian M. Cogan has sought to keep a tight leash on the gore. But Mr. Valdez’s testimony was exceptionally gruesome and marked the first time that jurors heard explicitly graphic examples of the bloodshed that Mexican cartels have long been known for. It was also the first time that evidence was shown that depicted the violence personally committed by the defendant, known to the world as El Chapo.In three grueling hours on the witness stand, Mr. Valdez spellbound the jury in Federal District Court in Brooklyn with wrenching accounts from the front lines of Mexico’s bloody drug wars. He spoke about running someone down in his truck during a frantic highway gunfight. He spoke about murdering an informant in the earshot of women and children. He spoke about burying a bound and blindfolded man, who was still alive, on Mr. Guzmбn’s orders.As the prosecution’s last cooperating witness, Mr. Valdez’s appearance on the stand suggested that the government’s case was coming to an end. He seemed to have been called to deliver a gut punch to jurors. His testimony — brutal, relentless and unquestionably damaging to Mr. Guzmбn — was a kind of emotional punctuation mark.Mr. Valdez started his account with a vivid description of his first day working in what he described as Mr. Guzmбn’s “security circle.” On that day in 2004, he recalled, a man he knew as Fantasma — one of the kingpin’s bodyguards whose nickname translates to “ghost” — picked him up in Culiacбn and took him to an airstrip where he boarded a plane for a short flight into the Sierra Madre mountains. When Mr. Valdez landed at Mr. Guzmбn’s hide-out, someone walked up to him, he said, and placed a bulletproof vest, an AK-47 and a rocket-propelled grenade launcher in his hands.The rules of his new workplace were eventually explained to him.He would be on duty for a month, he was told, then off for a month.He would sleep in the dirt outside the kingpin’s cabin.He would be paid 2,000 pesos a month (or a little more than $175).He was never to approach the boss. If the boss wanted to speak with him, he would be summoned.That happened, Mr. Valdez said, 10 or 15 days after he arrived at the encampment known as The Sky. As he approached Mr. Guzmбn, he recalled, the crime lord jocularly asked, “Dude, how you doing?” Mr. Guzmбn wanted to know about his new recruit’s service in the Mexican special forces. He also warned the novice gunman that he had to be especially vigilant in the mountains.“Here,” Mr. Valdez recalled the drug lord saying, “you really have to be on the lookout.”Shortly after, Mr. Valdez, in his first assignment as one of Mr. Guzmбn’s sicarios, or assassins, was ordered to accompany the kingpin’s chief of security, Alejandro Aponte, known as El Negro, to hunt down and execute an informant. Mr. Valdez told jurors that three other killers accompanied him. One was known as El Ocho. The other was nicknamed Mojo Jojo.After the hit team arrived at the informant’s house, Mr. Valdez said, they “subdued” the women and children then found their target hiding in a bedroom. The man was taken to an indoor patio where, apparently desperate, he wrapped his arms around one of its support columns. Mr. Valdez said that Mr. Aponte shot the man first with a burst of automatic gunfire. After he fell to the ground, Mr. Valdez said, another sicario shot him in the head.Then the hit team simply returned to their pickup truck. “We headed toward the mountains,” Mr. Valdez said.A few years later, he recalled, he watched Mr. Guzmбn interrogate — then kill — an ally of his bitter enemies, the Arellano Fйlix brothers. Speaking softly in the silent courtroom, Mr. Valdez recounted how the kingpin had the man brought, bound and blindfolded, to a graveyard in one of his mountain camps. The man had already been tortured so viciously with an iron, he said, that his T-shirt had been soldered into his skin. He also reeked, Mr. Valdez added, from having been locked inside a hen house for days.Although the victim couldn’t see it, he had been placed in front of his own freshly dug grave. Mr. Valdez said Mr. Guzmбn asked the man several questions, and in the middle of an answer, pulled out a .25-caliber pistol and shot him.“Remove his handcuffs and bury him,” he recalled the crime lord saying.But as Mr. Valdez and another gunman bent to fetch the body, they realized the small caliber bullet hadn’t killed the man.AdvertisementSupported byBy ReutersWELLINGTON — Representatives of governments from around the world are expected to attend a national remembrance service in New Zealand on Friday for the 50 victims of a mass shooting at two mosques in Christchurch."This is an event that affected New Zealand deeply. But it was our Muslim New Zealanders who were targeted. So rightly so, that would be reflected in the remembrance service," Prime Minister Jacinda Ardern told a news conference.The Organisation of Islamic Cooperation (OIC) will be represented at the service, but the full list of the attendees from 59 countries was withheld for security reasons, as the country has been on high alert since the March 15 attack.Australia's Prime Minister Scott Morrison, the governor general Peter Cosgrove and opposition leader Bill Shorten will be among foreign leaders attending the service, Ardern said. Heads of state from Pacific countries, including Fiji's President Jioji Konkrote will also be in attendance, she added.The service will be held in Christchurch in Hagley Park, where tens of thousands of New Zealanders have gathered since the attack to mourn the deaths. It will be televised live on state television networks.Britain's Prince William will visit New Zealand next month to honour the victims, his office said.AdvertisementSupported byBy Reuters(Reuters) - Facebook Inc Chief Operating Officer Sheryl Sandberg said on Friday the company was looking to place restrictions on who can go live on its platform based on certain criteria in the aftermath of the Christchurch massacre.The company will monitor who can go "Live" on Facebook depending on factors such as prior community standard violations, Sandberg said in a blog post https://instagram-press.com/blog/2019/03/29/by-working-together-we-can-win-against-hate.A lone gunman killed 50 people at two mosques in New Zealand on March 15, while livestreaming the massacre.Facebook has identified more than 900 different videos showing portions of the 17-minutes of carnage and has used its existing artificial intelligence tools to identify and remove hate groups in Australia and New Zealand, the blog said.Last week, the social networking giant said it removed 1.5 million videos globally that had footage of the New Zealand mosque attack in the first 24 hours after the attack. Earlier this week, one of the main groups representing Muslims in France said it was suing Facebook and YouTube, accusing them of inciting violence by allowing the streaming of the video.Facebook, the world's largest social network with 2.7 billion users, has faced growing discontent over its approach to privacy and user data amid increasing concerns over its advertising practices.AdvertisementSupported byBy ReutersCHRISTCHURCH — "Almost every person we spoke to was in some stage of grief, trauma or shock," says Charlotte Greenfield, the first Reuters correspondent to reach Christchurch, New Zealand, on the night a gunman opened fire in two mosques and killed 50 people."My first priority was to not traumatise anyone again, my second was to gather the information I needed to tell the story accurately and as deeply as possible."The challenge for any journalist covering the massacre was the struggle to remain dispassionate when the country was in shock and people being interviewed had suffered such sudden tragedy. Reuters had a team of nine reporters, photographers and TV journalists in Christchurch to report on the massacre.Greenfield had the added challenge of being a New Zealander. She felt personally closer to events than many other journalists.When she flew into Christchurch that night from Wellington, on one of the last planes to land before flights were stopped for security reasons, Greenfield saw heavily armed policemen at the airport, and heard ambulances wailing and the sound of low-flying helicopters."The only other place I had heard that sound at that intensity was in Kabul, where I had been working in January. That first night, I woke up often, thinking I was back in Afghanistan," says Greenfield, who has also worked in Indonesia, where she covered a 2014 plane crash that killed all 162 on board.She said she struggled the next day to remain calm when interviewing people who had lost loved ones."The way that seemed to work best to speak to people was to always start first by asking how they were and trying to express compassion for their loss," Greenfield says. She would converse, she said, "if they felt like talking.""It was really the subject I was interviewing who taught me that, from the man I walked beside in the park who told me of his dramatic escape from the mosque, to the woman who wanted to show me photos of her husband who had died after running back to the mosque after initially getting out."Very often, and still now, a few tears came to my eyes. So far as I can tell, the people I spoke to didn't seem to mind."Sydney correspondent Tom Westbrook, who arrived in Christchurch the next day, says he was struck by the silence in the city. The man suspected to be the gunman had been apprehended and Christchurch was dealing with its grief."For the next five days, I barely heard a conversation above a murmur," Westbrook says. "It was a city in shock. At makeshift shrines to the victims, people gathered in silence, tears rolling down their faces."The loudest sounds were of buzzing cicadas, rustling oak trees and humming generators set up by television networks to power the satellite dishes they were using to transmit their broadcasts.""HORRIFIED SOUL-SEARCHING"Westbrook is based in Sydney, Australia, where he mainly reports on company news: profits, losses, stock prices up or down.He said he had many difficult conversations with the bereaved."One of hardest discussions was with Farid Ahmed, whose wife Husna was gunned down, while he survived. As he spoke for over two hours, with a television camera rolling, I was close to tears."As a journalist, though, he had to set the emotion aside to make sure he was reporting the story right, Westbrook said."We had to check a lot of things with him: where were you, exactly, in the mosque, which way did you get out, what is the name of Husna's school? It is not easy to check all these things with someone who is very emotional and maybe not thinking clearly themselves, and to raise them in a way that is delicate."Greenfield says as a New Zealander of European descent, covering the massacre by a suspected white supremacist also brought up "horrified soul-searching"."I had not quite felt so personally wrapped up in such harrowing questions in the midst of a story before," she says."The Friday a week after the attacks, came a moment of catharsis interwoven with sorrow."After the call to prayer, the country came to a standstill for two minutes. School children stopped their lessons and sat cross legged and eyes closed, tradesmen put down their tools, immigration staff stopped processing people at the border, most air traffic radios went silent, and around the country thousands stood outside mosques, leaving a long passage for those entering to pray.AdvertisementSupported byBy The Associated PressWELLINGTON, New Zealand — The Latest on the mosque attacks in Christchurch, New Zealand (all times local):7 p.m.The body of a 26-year-old Pakistani who was among 50 worshippers killed during attacks on mosques in New Zealand has arrived at an airport in the southern port city of Karachi.Syed Areeb Ahmed was among nine Pakistanis who were killed on March 15 when a white supremacist shot people inside two mosques in Christchurch, New Zealand.On Monday, his sobbing father Syed Ayaz Ahmed, family members and government officials received his body.Ahmed was an only son who had immigrated to New Zealand for work, according to his uncle Muhammad Muzaffar Khan.Last week, Pakistan observed a day of mourning for the victims and honored another Pakistani, Naeem Rashid, who died along with his son after trying to tackle the gunman.___3 p.m.New Zealand's prime minister has announced a top-level inquiry into the circumstances surrounding the massacre of 50 people in two Christchurch mosques.Prime Minister Jacinda Ardern says the country's highest form of investigation, a royal commission of inquiry, was appropriate for "matters of the gravest public importance."Her Cabinet had previously agreed on holding an inquiry, but had not decided what kind of investigation would be held.AdvertisementSupported byBy Liam Stack and Jacey FortinRead Thursday’s story on the shooting at a bank in Florida that police say left five dead.The call came in at 12:37 p.m. Wednesday. A 21-year old gunman, clad in a T-shirt that bore the image of four scythe-wielding grim reapers on horseback, wanted the police to know that he had just opened fire in a bank in the small city of Sebring, Fla., the police said.“I have shot five people,” he told a dispatcher, according to a police statement. There were only five people in the bank at the time, the police said, and they all died.When the Sebring Police Department and the Highlands County Sheriff’s Office responded to the SunTrust Bank branch on U.S. Route 27, they said, they found the shooter barricaded inside. What followed was a tense standoff with police negotiators that ended when an armored police vehicle rammed into the bank doors, shattering their glass, video footage shows.The police said in a statement that negotiators and members of the SWAT team “persuaded the suspect to surrender.” Video from the scene shows officers inching toward the broken glass with their firearms drawn. They soon emerged with the suspect in handcuffs.“We are sorry to learn that we have at least five victims, people who were senselessly murdered, as a result of his act in this bank,” Chief Karl Hoglund of the Sebring police said at a brief news conference late Wednesday afternoon in this city 80 miles south of Orlando.He identified the man in custody as Zephen Xaver, 21, a resident of Sebring. The police said they were still investigating the motive for what the police chief called “coldblooded murder.”Mr. Xaver was being held at Highlands County Jail and was charged with five counts of first-degree premeditated murder.At a court hearing on Thursday morning, Judge Anthony Ritenour ordered him to be held without bail. Mr. Xaver, who was wearing a black and white jumpsuit, stood before the judge and responded, “Yes, sir,” when asked whether he had no income or assets. Judge Ritenour granted a public defender to represent Mr. Xaver.On Wednesday, Chief Hoglund told reporters that investigators had not finished identifying the victims. “This is a very dynamic and ongoing investigation,” he added.Mr. Xaver had recently been training to work as a correctional officer at Avon Park Correctional Institution, a prison about 20 miles north of the bank where the shooting occurred, said Patrick Manderfield, a spokesman for the Florida Department of Corrections.He was hired as a trainee in November and resigned on Jan. 9, Mr. Manderfield said. He had no disciplinary record with the department.Gov. Ron DeSantis, who traveled to the area on Wednesday afternoon, posted a  message from him and his wife, Casey DeSantis, on Twitter.“This is a terrible day for Sebring, Highlands County and for the state of Florida,” Mr. DeSantis said. “Casey and I extend our most sincere condolences and sympathies to the families and loved ones of the victims. The people of Florida stand with the community of Sebring.”The governor said the gunman was “an individual that needs to face very swift and exacting justice.”Bill Rogers, the chairman and C.E.O. of SunTrust, said in a statement that the company was “working with officials and dedicating ourselves to fully addressing the needs of all the individuals and families involved.” He said the company was “deeply saddened” by the loss of life at the bank.Sebring, a sleepy city of about 10,000 whose meandering borders are dotted with lakes, boasts a historic downtown and an international raceway. On Wednesday night, it was swarming with wailing police cars, buzzing helicopters and media vehicles.“We have a whole lot more questions right now than answers,” said Don Elwell, a member of the Highlands County Board of County Commissioners. Both the shootings and the lack of information had left the community in shock, he said.“For us — I have some family in Las Vegas, where there was that big shooting, and they said, ‘We’re sorry to welcome you to our club,’” Mr. Elwell said on Wednesday, referring to a 2017 shooting that killed 59 people. “Obviously that was a different scale, but here in little Sebring it might as well be the same.”The episode on Wednesday is just the latest of several high-profile shootings in Florida that have roiled the state in recent months.Last February, a young gunman barged into his former high school in Parkland, Fla., opening fire on terrified students and teachers and leaving 17 dead. In August, a man with a handgun killed two people at a video-game tournament in Jacksonville, Fla., before fatally shooting himself. And last fall, a man walked into a yoga studio in Tallahassee, Fla., and shot six people — two fatally — before killing himself.Florida, which bears the official nickname the Sunshine State, is sometimes referred to as the Gunshine State because of its traditionally loose restrictions on firearms. But in March 2018, in the wake of the Parkland shooting, Rick Scott, who was then the governor, signed an array of gun limits into law that included raising the minimum age to purchase a firearm to 21 and extending the waiting period to three days.It was the most aggressive action on gun control taken in the state in decades, and the National Rifle Association almost immediately sued.Wendy Thompson, Matt Stevens and Julia Jacobs contributed reporting. Jack Begg contributed research.AdvertisementSupported byBy The Associated PressANKARA, Turkey — The Greek government voiced opposition Monday to the suggestion from Turkish President Recep Tayyip Erdogan that Istanbul's Hagia Sophia — a Byzantine-era cathedral that now serves as a museum — could be reconverted into a mosque.In a television interview Sunday ahead of Turkey's March 31 local elections, Erdogan indicated that it was possible to "change its name from museum to Hagia Sophia Mosque."There have been increasing calls for the government to convert the symbolic structure back into a mosque, especially in the wake of reports that the gunman who killed Muslim worshippers in New Zealand left a manifesto saying the Hagia Sophia should be "free of minarets."Erdogan's suggestion drew ire in Greece as the cathedral, originally built in the 6th century was the main seat of the Greek Orthodox church. It remained so until it was converted into a mosque after the Ottoman conquest of the city, then-known as Constantinople, in 1453. Turkey's secular founder turned the structure into a museum in 1935 that attracts millions of tourists each year."It is not only a great temple of Christendom — the largest for many centuries — it also belongs to humanity. It has been recognized by UNESCO as part of our global cultural heritage," Greek Foreign Minister George Katrougalos said."So any questioning of this status is not just an insult to the sentiments of Christians, it is an insult to the international community and international law."AdvertisementSupported byBy Liam StackThe authorities charged a man on Monday in connection with nearly a dozen shootings in and around a Southern California state park that left a father dead as he camped with his two young daughters and terrorized two affluent communities for almost two years.The suspect, Anthony Rauda, 42, was charged with murder in the June 2018 killing of Tristan Beaudette, 35, a scientist shot while he was inside a tent with his children at Malibu Creek State Park in the Santa Monica Mountains outside Los Angeles. His children were not hurt in the attack.Mr. Rauda, a felon who was on parole at the time of the attacks, was also charged with 10 counts of attempted murder in the shootings beginning in November 2016 in and around the park, which abuts the upscale communities of Calabasas and Malibu.He was arrested in October after sheriff’s deputies saw him on a ridge dressed in black with a rifle sticking out of his backpack, according to The Associated Press. They were searching the area for an armed burglar who stole food from nearby homes and businesses.Mr. Rauda was sentenced in November to 160 days in county jail for violating the terms of his post-release community supervision, said Shiara Davila-Morales, a spokeswoman for the prosecutor’s office. In December, he was sentenced to 180 days in jail for gun and ammunition violations, she said.“There is a huge sense of relief that the suspect has been apprehended and charged with these crimes,” said Alicia Weintraub, the mayor pro tem of Calabasas, which had offered a $5,000 reward for information related to the killing. “It was a very scary time. The fact something like that could happen here was very traumatic and the manner in which it happened was very upsetting.”Fred Gaines, a member of the Calabasas City Council, said the community had “a very, very low crime rate and an extremely low violent crime rate.”“To have an incident where someone is shot and killed is extremely rare,” Mr. Gaines said. “To have an unknown shooter in the community was of significant concern and for some people it was very frightening.”The area has been repeatedly shaken in recent months, first by the killing of Mr. Beaudette and then by the Woolsey Fire, which burned parts of both towns and tore through the verdant canyon park in November. That same month, 12 people were killed in a mass shooting at a country music bar in the nearby town of Thousand Oaks.“Following the shooting in Thousand Oaks and the fire that devastated our area, I am really grateful for the hard work of law enforcement who put this to rest,” said Skylar Peak, a member of the Malibu City Council.In a statement, prosecutors said the attacks began in November 2016 when the gunman shot James Rogers, who was sleeping in a hammock in the park. The gunman fired into the sleeping area of a parked vehicle less than a week later, they said, and then shot at vehicles in or near the park three times in 2017. No one was injured in those attacks.Prosecutors said the attacker again shot at a car last June as it drove down Las Virgenes Road, a major thoroughfare that forms part of the park’s eastern border, but no one was injured. The gunman encountered Mr. Beaudette in a tent with his children four days later, on June 22.A camper elsewhere in the park reported hearing gunfire at around 4:45 a.m. on the day Mr. Beaudette was killed, the authorities said in June. When deputies arrived at the camp site, which Mr. Gaines said is plainly visible from Las Virgenes Road, they found Mr. Beaudette with at least one gunshot wound in his upper torso. He was pronounced dead at the scene, the police said.“The grief and trauma this loss has caused our close-knit family is indescribable,” Mr. Beaudette’s family said in a statement released at the time of his death. “A scientist who loved cooking and microbrews, Tristan was happiest out in nature and spent every chance he could hiking, biking, snowboarding and camping with his family.”The Los Angeles County District Attorney’s Office said Mr. Rauda was also charged in five burglaries that occurred in the Calabasas area last year.A spokeswoman for the prosecutor declined to say how law enforcement had connected Mr. Rauda to all of the shootings and burglaries, and a spokesman for the Los Angeles County Sheriff’s Department did not respond to a request for comment on Monday.AdvertisementSupported byBy Saw Nang and Austin RamzyFour men were convicted Friday in the killing of a prominent adviser to Myanmar’s leadership who was shot in the head while holding his infant grandson at Yangon International Airport in 2017.The killing of the adviser, U Ko Ni, is widely believed to have been a political assassination. But the supposed mastermind has not been found, and what role, if any, the country’s powerful military had in the killing was not revealed in the lengthy trial of the four suspects.Mr. Ko Ni, 65, was a high-profile lawyer; a member of the governing party, the National League for Democracy; and a Muslim in a predominately Buddhist country riven by religious and ethnic violence. He was also a legal adviser to Myanmar’s leader, Daw Aung San Suu Kyi.His killing has hindered the governing party’s efforts to change the political system, in which the military that once ran the country as a dictatorship still maintains vast authority.Colleagues said that before his death, Mr. Ko Ni had advocated a new constitution that would cut the special powers the military reserved for itself in the current charter.Mr. Ko Ni was also an author of a strategy that allowed Ms. Aung San Suu Kyi to bypass a restriction in the Constitution that prevented her from becoming president. Her allies created a new position, state counselor, through which she leads the country.Witnesses said that before he opened fire, the gunman shouted, “You can’t act like that.”On Friday, the accused gunman, U Kyi Lin, was sentenced to death for the killing of Mr. Ko Ni. He was also sentenced to 20 years in prison for the killing of a taxi driver who tried to stop him after the initial shooting. U Aung Win Zaw, who was accused of directing the killer, was convicted of murder and also given a death sentence.The odds of the men being executed are quite low, however. Death sentences are typically commuted in Myanmar.Also sentenced on Friday were U Zeyar Phyo, who got five years in prison for conspiring in the killing, and U Aung Win Tun, who was convicted of harboring one of the conspirators as a fugitive and given three years in prison.Both Mr. Zeyar Phyo and Mr. Aung Win Zaw are former military officers.Prosecutors have said that the attack was masterminded by U Aung Win Khaing, a former lieutenant colonel in Myanmar’s Army. He remains at large.“Discussions of the motive in the killing are speculative,” U Nay La, a prosecutor, said in an interview with The Irrawaddy, an online news outlet. “We have not been able to establish a motive during the trial. Presumably we would be able to do so if Aung Win Khaing was arrested.”Mr. Nay La added that he did not believe Mr. Ko Ni was killed solely because he had advocated a new constitution, but that that could have been a factor in his death.Mr. Ko Ni was the son of a Muslim father from India and an ethnic Burmese and Buddhist mother. He was called one of the governing party’s brightest legal minds, which he combined with a political savvy that helped the party navigate the country’s sectarian divides.He endorsed a decision by the National League for Democracy to not run any Muslim candidates in the 2015 election, when it won a landslide victory that brought Ms. Aung San Suu Kyi to power. The Parliament seated in 2016 was the first to have no Muslim members since the country’s independence in 1948.Tens of thousands of mourners gathered for Mr. Ko Ni’s funeral in Yangon, but Ms. Aung San Suu Kyi did not attend.AdvertisementSupported byFRONT PAGEBecause of an editing error, an article on Monday about the police response to the Christchurch, New Zealand, mosque attacks referred incorrectly to which side of the gunman’s vehicle he was pulled from by two arresting officers. It was the passenger side, not the driver’s side.INTERNATIONALAn article on Friday about activist movements that have formed in the wake of the killing of the Brazilian activist Marielle Franco misidentified the office to which three women were elected last year. Renata da Silva Souza, Dani Monteiro and Mфnica Francisco were elected to the Rio de Janeiro State Assembly, not the City Council.•An article on Tuesday about a dead whale beached in the Philippines misstated, in one reference, the amount of plastic found inside the whale’s body. As noted in the headline and elsewhere in the article, it was 88 pounds, not 40 pounds.NATIONALA picture caption with an article on Tuesday about the former White House counsel Gregory B. Craig misstated the dates of Mr. Craig’s tenure as White House counsel. As the article correctly noted, he served from 2009 to 2010, not after 2012.BUSINESSAn article on Tuesday about the legacy of Levi Strauss & Company misstated, based on information included in Levi’s’ public offering filing, when Beyoncй performed at Coachella. It was April 2018, not 2017.•An article on Tuesday about the political contributions of executives misidentified the positions of three researchers. Although the study was conducted through a Harvard Law School program, Moshe Hazan is a professor at Tel Aviv University, David Weiss is a lecturer at Tel Aviv University, and Roberto Tallarita is an associate director of the Harvard program. They are not Harvard professors.ARTSAn article on Tuesday about the New York International Antiquarian Book Fair misstated the words above the portrait of Qiu Jin in the pamphlet published soon after Qiu’s death. Though she is referred to as “woman warrior” elsewhere in the pamphlet, those are not the words that appear on the page with her portrait.OBITUARIESAn obituary on Tuesday about the economist Alan B. Krueger misstated the year he graduated from Cornell. It was 1983, not 1985.Errors are corrected during the press run whenever possible, so some errors noted here may not have appeared in all editions.To contact the newsroom regarding correction requests, complaints or other comments about our coverage, please email nytnews@nytimes.com or call 1-844-NYT-NEWS (1-844-698-6397).AdvertisementSupported byBy The Associated PressPARKLAND, Fla. — Days after the suicides of two student survivors of the Parkland school shooting, parents and teachers packed a town hall Wednesday night, anxiously wondering out loud how to get students to seek therapy as many have been unwilling — despite a barrage of offerings since the 2018 massacre.On Wednesday night, anxious parents in the standing-room only crowd spoke of fears and frustration in trying to get their children help after the Valentine's Day massacre that February, which killed 17 people.Lissette Rozenblat recalled how her 16-year-old daughter was in the freshman building the gunman attacked."My daughter doesn't want to go to therapy anymore either. I have to make the appointments ... and she's like, 'oh can we reschedule'," Rozenblat said. "They don't want to talk about it, but we know better. Sooner or later it's going to catch up to them."Other parents also said they are left feeling helpless because of the difficulty of forcing kids to get help they don't want."My son doesn't want to discuss it at all either," said Joe Safonte, whose 17-year-old narrowly missed an encounter with the gunman.His son stopped therapy after six months, saying it wasn't helping anymore, according to Safonte. But just last week, the father noted, his son was terrified when an alarm went off in their hotel room."Maybe it's time to go back," he said.The first Parkland suicide took place March 16. Cara Aiello told WFOR-TV her 18-year-old daughter Sydney had suffered from survivor's guilt — her friend, Meadow Pollack, died in the attack. Coral Springs police Officer Tyler Reik confirmed Monday that a Stoneman Douglas sophomore apparently killed himself Saturday, but autopsy results were pending. The boy's name was not immediately released.A local nonprofit had planned to open a teen wellness center near Marjory Stoneman Douglas High School on April 30, offering free activities such as karaoke night, yoga, kickboxing and acupuncture for students who weren't interested in talking to a therapist. A wellness center, Eagle's Haven, even opened weeks ahead of schedule Monday to address emergency needs of students and their families."One teen just wanted to cry yesterday and didn't want to talk. Another teen wanted to tell his story about the actual shooting," said Julie Gordon, a licensed therapist and program director of Jewish Adoption and Family Care Options, the nonprofit behind Eagle's Haven.Some students say they feel re-traumatized talking about the Parkland shooting. Some only want to talk to friends who were there and understand what it's like. Still others perceive a stigma around seeking help.Shortly after the shooting, leaders in the affluent community quickly came together to offer an array of services, many free, including in-home counseling, therapy dogs and trauma techniques."Even though so many services have been available, it's been difficult to understand through the clutter of messaging .... there's so many options that it's hard to understand where to go," said Cindy Arenberg Seltzer, president of the Children's Services Council of Broward County.She moderated the standing room only town hall Wednesday, describing how calls to a 211 helpline had been flat after the shooting.The number of calls went up, however, after the recent suicides.Said Seltzer, "finally the message is breaking through."The recent apparent suicides of the two Parkland students and Jeremy Richman, the father of Sandy Hook victim who killed himself Monday, made national headlines, prompting fears of suicide or contagion clusters. Richman's daughter Avielle was one of 20 first-graders and six staff members fatally shot at the Connecticut elementary school six years ago.The Florida House held a moment of silence for all three Wednesday, their names read out as part of a tribute. Gov. Ron DeSantis scheduled a last minute listening session on mental health Thursday.Parkland leaders are working closely with those in Columbine, Colorado, and Newtown, Connecticut, and noted a spike in Sandy Hook first responders and survivors seeking therapy and other services — some for the first time — at the five-year anniversary of the attack. Experts are working to debunk the myth that time alone will heal traumas."The trauma will still be there, the anxiety, the flashbacks," Franco said. "People kind of measure those anniversaries and say, 'OK, a year from now I'll feel better,' so the first anniversary comes and you're not feeling better, so you're feeling like it won't go away. ... There are therapeutic approaches that can really help you heal that. You don't have to live with that."AdvertisementSupported byBy Reuters(Reuters) - Police are investigating a fire at a Southern California mosque on Sunday as a possible arson and hate crime after fresh graffiti on the driveway mentioned the mass shootings at two mosques in New Zealand, local media reported.Police and firefighters were called to the Islamic Center of Escondido, north of San Diego, about 3:15 a.m. (1015 GMT) on Sunday about a fire that blackened an outside wall, the San Diego Tribune and other media reported.Congregants at the center smelled smoke, spotted the fire and put it out before it caused serious damage, before firefighters arrived, media reported.No one was injured.But on the mosque's driveway, police found fresh graffiti that referenced the March 15 shootings at two mosques in Christchurch, New Zealand, that left 50 people dead and others seriously injured from a gunman who published a hate-filled manifesto on social media, police told the press.The exact words in the graffiti message were not released by police.Morning prayers at the mosque were canceled as law enforcement investigated the scene.Escondido Police Lieutenant Chris Lick told the Tribune and other media that it appeared that a chemical accelerant was used to set the fire.No suspects were reported.Along with local police and fire officials, agents with the FBI and Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives are investigating the case as both an arson and a hate crime, media reported.Yusef Miller, a spokesman for the Islamic community in Escondido told the Tribune that people at mosques across the region need to remain vigilant."Everyone is on edge," he told the paper. ""When they connected it to New Zealand, it gave us more of a mortal fear that something outlandish might happen."AdvertisementSupported byBy Liam StackFacebook said on Wednesday that it would ban white nationalist content from its platforms, a significant policy change that bows to longstanding demands from civil rights groups who said the tech giant was failing to confront the powerful reach of white extremism on social media.The threat posed by white nationalism on Facebook was violently underlined this month when a racist gunman killed 50 people at two mosques in New Zealand, using the platform to post live video of the attack. Facebook removed the video and the gunman’s account on Facebook and Instagram, but the footage was widely shared on YouTube, Twitter and Reddit.The company had previously banned white supremacist content from its platforms but maintained a murky distinction between white supremacy, white nationalism and white separatism. On Wednesday, it said that its views had been changed by civil society groups and experts in race relations and that it now believed “white nationalism and separatism cannot be meaningfully separated from white supremacy and organized hate groups.”Kristen Clarke, the president of the Lawyers’ Committee for Civil Rights Under Law, which helped Facebook shape its new attitude toward white nationalism, said the earlier policy “left a gaping hole in terms of what it provided for white supremacists to fully pursue their platform.”“Online hate must be confronted if we are going to make meaningful progress in the fight against hate, so this is a really significant victory,” Ms. Clarke said.[The Charlottesville attacker pleaded guilty to federal hate crime charges.]As part of its policy change, Facebook said it would divert users who searched for white supremacist content to Life After Hate, a nonprofit that helps people leave hate groups, and would improve its ability to use artificial intelligence and machine learning to combat white nationalism.“It’s clear that these concepts are deeply linked to organized hate groups and have no place on our services,” Facebook said in a statement posted online on Wednesday. It later added, “Going forward, while people will still be able to demonstrate pride in their ethnic heritage, we will not tolerate praise or support for white nationalism and separatism.”The company said its decision, which takes effect next week, was based on a rethinking of its earlier policy on white nationalism, which it saw as a concept akin to ethnic pride and something different from and less dangerous than white supremacy.“Our policies have long prohibited hateful treatment of people based on characteristics such as race, ethnicity or religion — and that has always included white supremacy,” the company said in a statement. “We didn’t originally apply the same rationale to expressions of white nationalism and separatism because we were thinking about broader concepts of nationalism and separatism — things like American pride and Basque separatism, which are an important part of people’s identity.”Facebook’s decision was praised by civil rights groups and experts in extremism, many of whom had strongly disapproved of the company’s previous understanding of white nationalism.Madihha Ahussain, a lawyer for Muslim Advocates, a civil-rights group, said the policy change was “a welcome development” in the wake of the New Zealand mosque shootings. But she said the company still had to explain how it will enforce the policy, including how it will determine what constitutes white nationalist content.“We need to know how Facebook will define white nationalist and white separatist content,” she said in an email. “For example, will it include expressions of anti-Muslim, anti-Black, anti-Jewish, anti-immigrant and anti-LGBTQ sentiment — all underlying foundations of white nationalism? Further, if the policy lacks robust, informed and assertive enforcement, it will continue to leave vulnerable communities at the mercy of hate groups.”Mark Pitcavage, who tracks domestic extremism for the Anti-Defamation League, said the shift from Facebook was “a good thing if they were using such a narrow definition before.”Mr. Pitcavage said the term white nationalism “had always been used as a euphemism for white supremacy, and today it is still used as a euphemism for white supremacy.” He called the two terms “identically extreme.”He said white supremacists began using the term “white nationalist” after the civil rights movement of the 1960s, when the term “white supremacy” began to receive sustained scorn from mainstream society, including among white people.“The less hard-core white supremacists stopped using any term for themselves, but the more hard-core white supremacists started using ‘white nationalism’ as a euphemism for ‘white supremacy,’” he said.And he said comparisons between white nationalism and American patriotism or ethnic pride were misplaced.“Whiteness is not an ethnicity, it is a skin color,” Mr. Pitcavage said. “And America is a multicultural society. White nationalism is simply a form of white supremacy. It is an ideology centered on hate.”AdvertisementSupported byBy Damien CaveCHRISTCHURCH, New Zealand — The suspected gunman in last week’s attack on two mosques in Christchurch, New Zealand, was charged with murder for the death of one victim — but the police announced on Thursday that that supposed victim was in fact alive.A police spokesman said that the charge sheet would be corrected, with a new name, and legal experts said the mistake would not impede prosecution in the mass shooting that left 50 people dead.“In our system there is a provision to amend the charge at any time, and the issue is whether the amendment is in the interest of justice,” said Jonathan Eaton, a lawyer and former prosecutor specializing in criminal law. “I will imagine there will be a fairly hasty effort to amend that charging document.”The names of the person incorrectly included on the charge sheet — and the one being added — are both subject to a suppression order by Judge Paul Kellar.Judge Kellar ruled on Saturday during the first court appearance of the suspect, Brenton H. Tarrant, that the person he was said to have killed should temporarily not be publicly identified to avoid causing harm to the person’s family.The police said they had apologized to the person they named in error, but they did not respond to requests for further details.The mistake was uncovered when reporters noticed a discrepancy between the police’s official list of names, which was released on Thursday, and the names identified by victims and other sources. Radio New Zealand, which first reported the police’s mistake, counted 51 names when the police insisted that there were 50.Mr. Eaton said it was embarrassing but perhaps understandable for a police force overwhelmed by a crime like nothing it had ever seen.“When you’re dealing with something for which there is no established response, which you’ve never experienced before, then things are going to be thrown up that you’re going to have to learn from,” he said. “There are mistakes made and learnings for sure.”AdvertisementSupported byBy The Associated PressCANBERRA, Australia — Police in Australia set off a panic when they locked down a Melbourne train station on Thursday after a street entertainer's instrument was mistaken for a rifle.Commuters described panic at Melbourne's Flagstaff Station when police in body armor carrying assault rifles stopped a train during morning rush hour. Terrified passengers were in tears and phoned relatives to tell them they were loved.Police said a passenger reported busker Will Austin behaving suspiciously on a train as he performed breathing exercises in preparation for playing his didgeridoo, a polished-wood indigenous wind instrument which he carried in a bag mistakenly described to police as a rifle case.Austin said he was stopped by police after he got off the train at the station. He was concentrating on his smart phone at the time."Everyone was running and I probably looked pretty suspicious, I suppose, just waltzing around and slowly walking out of Flagstaff and I think that's where police stopped me," Austin told reporters."A few police officers approached me — they kind of chased after me to catch up because I was on my way, but one requested to look in my bag," he added.Victoria state Police Chief Commissioner Graham Ashton said no firearm was found and the train was allowed to proceed.Train passenger Sarsha Vadocz said she was unconcerned at first when the train stopped for five minutes at the station. Then someone yelled there was a gunman on the train and passengers dived to the floor.AdvertisementSupported byBy Reuters(Reuters) - Pittsburgh's city council on Tuesday approved restrictions on the use of some "assault weapons" and ammunition, passing bills introduced following a 2018 synagogue shooting, in a move gun-rights activists vowed to challenge.The all-Democratic council voted 6-3 to restrict the use of certain semi-automatic weapons, such as the Colt AR-15 rifle, which a lone gunman used in the October shooting at the Tree of Life Synagogue which killed 11 people.City residents who already own such guns would be allowed to keep them. The legislation bans certain ammunition and gun accessories. It also lets authorities temporarily take firearms from people judged a risk to themselves or others. Pittsburgh Mayor Bill Peduto, a Democrat, said he would sign the bill into law.Opponents of the legislation said it violated a state law prohibiting municipalities from regulating firearms or ammunition and vowed to sue the city and file criminal complaints against the council and mayor."If you sign between now and COB Thursday, we'll be at Municipal Court to file private criminal complaints," tweeted Val Finnell, a leading critic of the legislation.Councilman Corey O'Connor said Pennsylvania courts were now more open to allowing municipalities have a say on protecting residents. In 1993, the state courts overturned a previous assault weapons ban by the city council. "It's going to be a difficult battle, but we're willing to fight it," O'Connor told reporters after the vote. Seven U.S. states prohibit assault weapons, but Pennsylvania is not among them. Certain U.S. cities and counties in U.S. states with no assault weapon bans have imposed their own restrictions on the firearms.Pittsburgh council members who voted against the legislation said it would be too costly to litigate given Pennsylvania law.Gun control groups like CeaseFirePA praised the legislation as "common-sense gun laws."AdvertisementSupported byBy Liam StackA New York man who discussed an American re-enactment of the New Zealand mosque massacre with white supremacist friends on Facebook was charged Thursday with lying to F.B.I. agents, law enforcement officials said.According to the criminal complaint, Thomas Alonzo Bolin, 22, was charged on Wednesday with lying to federal agents in an interview last week about whether he owned firearms, the Office of the United States Attorney for the Western District of New York said. He was already in custody on state charges filed Saturday.The office said the F.B.I. had been investigating Mr. Bolin, who lives in the Rochester suburb of Greece, N.Y., for possible violations of federal civil rights and firearms laws.It was not clear on Thursday whether Mr. Bolin had made any specific plans for violence. But in Facebook messages he had praised the March 15 mass killing of 50 people at two mosques in Christchurch, New Zealand, according to the criminal complaint. He also discussed his desire to commit acts of violence in the messages, which were intercepted by law enforcement officials.The F.B.I. said Mr. Bolin used the alias Peter Vincent to share video of the Christchurch attack, which was livestreamed by the shooter on Facebook and spread to Twitter, Reddit and YouTube. Mr. Bolin also used that alias to be active in white supremacist Facebook groups and discuss potential violence with his cousin, Austin Witkowski, the agency said.A law enforcement official said Mr. Witkowski, who used the Facebook alias Ragnar Odinson, had not been arrested. The official said his whereabouts was unknown.The F.B.I. used Facebook messages to map out weeks of racist conversations between the two men, who appeared to share a specific hostile fixation on Muslims, according to the complaint.On the day of the Christchurch attack, the two men also talked to each other about the manifesto published by the gunman and shared their hope that a similar massacre would happen in the United States.The F.B.I. said Mr. Bolin talked to his cousin about the New Zealand gunman, telling him, “Brugh dude killed 40 muslims.” Mr. Witkowski responded with a heart emoji and the word, “Lovely.”Both men talked to other Facebook users about the Christchurch attack, the F.B.I. said, and their desire to emulate it in the United States, although those other users are not identified in the criminal complaint.Talking about the shooting with one of those unidentified Facebook users, Mr. Brolin said “there is a war brewing” and “realistically this was a small piece of a bigger picture now we wait for the retaliation.”The criminal complaint alleges that Mr. Witkowski made more specific threats. Speaking to an unidentified Facebook user, Mr. Witkowski said he wanted to see the Christchurch attacks copied in the United States and then said he was willing to “do something as of next week” in Baltimore.The complaint said Mr. Witkowski told the other Facebook user to buy firearms, ammunition and food, and said that he would travel to meet him the next week. The complaint does not say if the meeting ever happened.The day after the shooting, Mr. Bolin and Mr. Witkowski expressed frustration to each other that they had not been able to carry out an attack. According to the complaint, Mr. Bolin said he had broken his arm in a car accident.Using an expletive, Mr. Witkowski responded that the broken arm would complicate an unspecified plan they had made. Mr. Bolin then reassured him, saying it only “takes one arm to fire a Glock.”Mr. Witkowski wrote back saying he would carry out their plan himself. “I’m not waiting months and months or a week,” he said. “It was supposed to be done by Halloween.”Later that day, Mr. Witkowski wrote to his cousin: “Words aren’t going to help. Violence is the key.” The F.B.I. said Mr. Bolin then cautioned his cousin not to say anything more on Facebook.“Yoooo chill,” he wrote. “Not on the fed book.” Mr. Witkowski replied that he did not care.Using the Peter Vincent alias, Mr. Bolin managed a Facebook group called Odin’s Warriors, which did not appear to be active on Thursday. The F.B.I. said Mr. Bolin and his cousin were members of a neo-pagan religious group called “Folk Odinism” that worships the gods of Norse mythology and limits its membership to white heterosexuals.The criminal complaint said investigators linked Mr. Bolin to the Peter Vincent account by combing through Facebook messages, where Mr. Vincent once told someone that his “real name is Thomas Bolin, Peter Vincent is a character from a horror movie.” (That was most likely the 1985 vampire movie “Fright Night,” or the 2011 remake.)Facebook provided the F.B.I. with Mr. Bolin’s messages on March 21 as part of a “voluntary emergency disclosure of subscriber and content information,” the agency said. A representative for the company said it shares user information with law enforcement without going through a formal legal process only when it believes there to be an imminent risk of serious injury or death.“White supremacy, hate groups, and hate speech are not allowed on Facebook, and we also recently announced a ban on praise or support of white nationalism,” the company said in a statement. “We remove any content that violates our policies and work with law enforcement when we think there is a genuine risk of real-world harm.”AdvertisementSupported byBy Isabel KershnerJERUSALEM — A Palestinian carried out a stabbing and shooting attack in the occupied West Bank on Sunday, killing an Israeli soldier and a civilian, and ratcheting up tensions ahead of Israeli elections.The attack came amid a heated campaign for the April 9 ballot in which a former general leading a new, centrist party is challenging the longtime incumbent, Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu, over who can provide Israelis with better security.The situation was already volatile.On Friday, a fragile calm was restored after two rockets from Gaza  were fired at Tel Aviv on the night before, without causing harm.Israel retaliated swiftly, with strikes at what it said were military sites and compounds belonging to Hamas, the Islamic militant group that controls Gaza. The Israeli military said one of the sites it struck in Gaza was the headquarters for coordinating Hamas activities in the West Bank, where the group has been seeking to foment violence.The soldier killed on Sunday was identified as Staff Sgt. Gal Keidan, 19. On Monday, a second victim, Rabbi Achiad Ettinger, 47, a father of 12 from the settlement of Eli and head of a seminary in Tel Aviv, died of his wounds. Another soldier was seriously wounded. As of Monday morning, the assailant was still at large.Hamas praised the attack as a “courageous and daring operation,” without claiming responsibility for it. In a statement, it described the West Bank as a “strategic” place where it was possible to surprise Israel with violent attacks.The assault began when a Palestinian man stabbed Sergeant Keidan near the settlement of Ariel in the central West Bank, then stole the soldier’s weapon and took off in a car, according to the Israeli military. He then fired at people at a bus stop before fleeing the scene.In remarks at the weekly cabinet meeting in Jerusalem, Mr. Netanyahu said the security forces were pursuing those responsible for the attack at two points in the central West Bank. “I am certain that they will apprehend them,” he said, “and we will deal with them to the fullest extent of the law, as we have done in all of the recent incidents.”In December, two Israeli soldiers were killed by a Palestinian gunman near Ramallah, days after another attacker wounded a pregnant woman; her baby died. Another Palestinian gunman killed two Israelis at a West Bank factory.Even before the victim of Sunday’s attack had been named, the incident became grist for the increasingly rough election campaign. In search of support and facing corruption charges, a weakened Mr. Netanyahu is pulling out all the stops, including making a deal last month with  a racist anti-Arab party.On Sunday, Israel’s High Court of Justice disqualified one of the candidates from that party, Michael Ben Ari, from running in the election. The judges acted after being presented with video evidence of Mr. Ben Ari’s incitement against Palestinians, including those who are citizens of Israel.Miri Regev, the minister of culture and sport from Mr. Netanyahu’s Likud party, said the attack Sunday was the direct result of incitement by Palestinians; criticized an Arab lawmaker in Israel’s Parliament for refusing to condemn terrorist attacks; and accused the new party, led by Benny Gantz, a former military chief, of wanting to form a parliamentary majority with the Arab lawmaker.“This is the weak left, and this is the left that will bring us a continuation of terror attacks like these,” Ms. Regev said.Mr. Gantz’s Blue and White Party dismissed the criticism. “Never in the history of the state has it happened that a minister in Israel has exploited the deaths of those killed in terror attacks for political propaganda even before the funerals of the dead,” it said on twitter. “For the honor of the victims we will not respond at this time.”Hamas has found itself under increasing pressure because of a crippling economic crisis in Gaza. The group has harshly suppressed street demonstrations in recent days, beating and arresting civilians who have burned tires and blocked roads in protest against the daily hardships of life in the Palestinian coastal territory.The United Nations special envoy for the Middle East peace process, Nickolay Mladenov, denounced Hamas’s actions in a statement on Sunday. He said he was “particularly alarmed by the brutal beating” of journalists and local human rights workers in Gaza as well as the raiding of homes.“The long-suffering people of Gaza,” Mr. Mladenov said, have the right to protest “without fear of reprisal.”There is more potential for violence.Hamas is preparing for what it hopes will be a million-strong demonstration on March 30, the  anniversary of the start of often-violent protests along the fence dividing Gaza from Israel, in which scores of Palestinians have been killed by Israeli fire. The domestic pressure might well make Hamas all the more eager to redirect the public’s anger toward Israel, analysts say.In addition, an Israeli court on Sunday placed a temporary closure order on a disputed site known as Bab al-Rahma, which was being used by Muslims for prayer. It sits within the sacred compound revered by Muslims as Haram al-Sharif and by Jews as the Temple Mount in the Old City of Jerusalem, a frequent flash point for violence.Iyad Abuheweila contributed reporting from Gaza.AdvertisementSupported byJazmine, a 7-year-old girl from Texas, was fatally shot while in a car with her mother and sisters. The police believe the attack was a case of “mistaken identity.”By Julia JacobsJazmine Barnes, a 7-year-old girl whose fatal shooting has shaken the Houston area, was remembered at her funeral on Tuesday as a child who cared for those around her and who dreamed of one day being a teacher.A second grader at a Houston-area school, Jazmine was in the car with her mother and three sisters on an early morning coffee run on Dec. 30, when a car pulled up beside them and someone opened fire. A bullet struck Jazmine in the head, and she died at the scene, according to the police.“Jazmine is an innocent child,” Mayor Sylvester Turner of Houston said, speaking to mourners at the Community of Faith Church in Houston. “She was blameless.”“Because of her life I just want to believe that all of us will be better,” he said, “that all of us will work harder, that all of us will strive to make this world a safer place for our children.”The young black girl’s killing prompted fears of a hate crime after the family and authorities described the gunman as a gaunt white man in his 30s or 40s. That narrative was upended on Sunday when the police charged a 20-year-old African-American man named Eric Black Jr., who the authorities say admitted to taking part in the shooting, with capital murder. Sheriff Ed Gonzalez of Harris County, Tex., said that it was most likely a case of “mistaken identity,” and that Jazmine’s family’s car might not have been the intended target.Shortly after the funeral ended on Tuesday, the sheriff’s office announced that a second man, Larry D. Woodruffe, had been charged with capital murder in Jazmine’s death. [Read more here about how trauma can affect witnesses’ memories.]Jazmine’s father, Chris Cevilla, said at the funeral that his daughter was a positive force who improved the lives of those around her. She lay in a white coffin that said “Princess Jazmine.”“God blessed me and my family with an angel,” Mr. Cevilla said. “Words can’t even express the pain that I feel.”The ceremony included little discussion of the shooting itself, focusing instead on memorializing Jazmine and grieving with her family. But Representative Sheila Jackson Lee, a Democrat whose district includes part of Houston, gestured to the criminal proceedings taking place.“Let those who perpetrated this heinous death know that the community believes in justice,” she said.The case quickly drew national attention. DeAndre Hopkins, a wide receiver for the Houston Texans, pledged to donate his paycheck from a playoff game, amounting to about $29,000, to help pay for Jazmine’s funeral. The basketball star Shaquille O’Neal also promised to help the family pay for the funeral, according to CNN.AdvertisementSupported byFRONT PAGEAn article on Saturday about the massacre at two mosques in New Zealand transposed the first and second guns used by the accused gunman in the Al Noor mosque shooting. The first was a semiautomatic shotgun, not a rifle. The second was a semiautomatic rifle, not a shotgun.INTERNATIONALAn article on Wednesday about the indictment of eight Cambodian opposition leaders misidentified a vice president of the Cambodia National Rescue Party. He is Eng Chhai Eang, not Eng Chhai.•An article on Wednesday about the victims of the mass shooting in New Zealand, relying on information from the police, erroneously included an individual among the victims who were killed in the attack. That profile has been removed from the digital version of the article.NATIONALAn article on Wednesday about a plan for seven Western states to reduce water use amid a 19-year drought stated incorrectly the decade that Lake Mead began to fill. The lake began to fill in the 1930s, not the 1960s.NEW YORKAn article on Thursday about the philanthropist Michael Steinhardt misspelled the given name of Sheila Katz’s lawyer. She is Debra Katz, not Deborah.SPORTSAn article on Wednesday about soil shipped overseas for Major League Baseball games described incorrectly the significance of games between the Cubs and the Mets in Japan in 2000. They were the first regular-season games played outside North America, not the first played outside the United States and Canada.Errors are corrected during the press run whenever possible, so some errors noted here may not have appeared in all editions.To contact the newsroom regarding correction requests, complaints or other comments about our coverage, please email nytnews@nytimes.com or call 1-844-NYT-NEWS (1-844-698-6397).AdvertisementSupported byBy The New York Times• New Zealand grappled with grief and horror on Sunday, two days after a gunman opened fire at two mosques in the city of Christchurch, killing at least 50 people. The terrorist attack appeared to have been carried out by a white nationalist who posted a racist manifesto online and streamed live video of the killings on Facebook.• Prime Minister Jacinda Ardern said on Sunday that the suspect, an Australian, would be tried in New Zealand, and that her government would discuss gun regulation at a meeting on Monday. “There will be changes to our gun laws,” she said.• Minutes before the shooting began on Friday, Ms. Ardern was emailed a copy of the manifesto purported to be from the gunman, her office said. Many news outlets and lawmakers also received the email.• The family of the suspect, identified in court papers as Brenton Harrison Tarrant, 28, has apologized for the attack. In an interview published online on Sunday by Australia’s 9News, his grandmother said the family was “shattered” and denounced his actions as “unrepairable.”Prime Minister Jacinda Ardern said Sunday that the suspect charged in the Christchurch shootings, an Australian citizen, would be tried in New Zealand.A 28-year-old man from Australia has been charged with murder and appeared Saturday morning in a Christchurch courtroom. Court papers identified him as Brenton Harrison Tarrant.Ms. Ardern said he would face more charges, but she did not say whether terrorism charges were being considered. She said she was seeking advice on whether Mr. Tarrant might be extradited to Australia, but that his trial would take place in New Zealand.“He will certainly face the justice system of New Zealand for the terror attack he has committed here,” she said.There was no other shooter, Ms. Ardern said. She said one person had been taken into custody as a result of evidence collected during the investigation but that there was no evidence he was linked to the attack.Ms. Ardern said that her government would discuss the New Zealand’s gun laws at a meeting on Monday.“There will be changes to our gun laws,” she said at an afternoon news conference.She also said she would look into reports that there had been a surge in gun sales in New Zealand since the attack on Friday.The shooting has vaulted New Zealand into what could be a divisive political battle over gun control in the country, where many people own weapons, with few restrictions. The authorities say the suspect in the assault used five guns he had acquired legally, including two semiautomatic assault weapons.Many Americans can buy a gun in less than an hour. In New Zealand, the process can take weeks or months.Within hours of the Friday killings, the prime minister promised changes to gun laws and said regulations of semiautomatic weapons were “one of the issues.” New Zealand’s attorney general, David Parker, appeared to go beyond that statement at a vigil for the victims on Saturday, indicating that semiautomatic weapons would be banned, but he later backtracked.Mr. Parker told Radio New Zealand that had been trying to reflect Ms. Ardern’s comments that “we need to ban some semiautomatics, perhaps all of them.”“Those decisions have yet to be taken, but the prime minister has signaled that we are going to look at that issue,” Mr. Parker told the broadcaster.Licensed New Zealand gun owners pushed back. The Kiwi Gun Blog, a gun-rights online publication, said that one of the assailant’s goals was “to cause the gun rights of responsible New Zealanders to be attacked.” It said “our prime minister is now capitulating with him.”There is no dispute that acquiring a military-style semiautomatic weapon is relatively easy in New Zealand, where guns are plentiful. According to a 2017 small arms survey, there are more than 1.2 million firearms among the population of 4.6 million.Under New Zealand law, anyone 16 or older may seek a firearms license, and anyone 18 or older who has applied for a firearms license can seek a permit to possess a military-style semiautomatic weapon.In the United States, the National Rifle Association, a leading advocate of gun-owner rights, issued its first statement on the attack, denouncing the killer while saying nothing about the weapons used.“It doesn’t matter if these senseless tragedies occur in the United States or abroad, our deepest sympathies are with the victims and their families,” said Andrew Arulanandam, a spokesman for the group.“This was the act of a monster. To the extent the N.R.A. is ridiculed for extending our deepest sympathies to those impacted by this horrific event, we make no apologies for our thoughts, words or prayers.”In an exclusive interview with Australia’s 9News, the family of the suspect condemned the attack and offered an apology to the families of the victims.“We’re so sorry for the families over there, for the dead and the injured,” Terry Fitzgerald, the suspect’s uncle, said. “We can’t think nothing else. We just want to go home and hide.”The suspect’s grandmother Marie Fitzgerald, 81, said: “We are all gobsmacked. We don’t know what to think.”“The media is saying he’s planned it for a long time,” she added. “So he’s obviously not of sound mind, I don’t think.”According to the 9News’s report, Brenton Harrison Tarrant had traveled to Europe after his father died of cancer 2010. The trips came at a time when Islamic extremism was on the rise, it said.“It was only since he traveled overseas, I think, that that boy has changed,” Ms. Fitzgerald said.They first learned that Mr. Tarrant was the suspect in the massacre while watching television, the report said. At first, the uncle said, they couldn’t believe it. But then they saw his photo.“It’s unrepairable,” Ms. Fitzgerald said.Brenton Harrison Tarrant, the man charged in the Christchurch shootings, was a member of the Bruce Rifle Club in New Zealand, the club confirmed on Sunday.The club is about a 35-minute drive from Dunedin, New Zealand, where Mr. Tarrant lived. In a statement, the club said it had about 100 members, all of whom are licensed to own and use firearms.Mr. Tarrant joined the Bruce Rifle Club last February, Scott Williams, the club’s vice president, said in an interview. He said Mr. Tarrant appeared to already have shooting skills and typically went to the range by himself.The club told the police on Friday that Mr. Tarrant had been a member, and the police visited the club on Sunday, Mr. Williams said. He said he could not say how often Mr. Tarrant went to the club because his attendance records had been turned over to the police.Mr. Williams said he had seen Mr. Tarrant at the club with a bolt-action hunting rifle and an AR-15 semiautomatic rifle but didn’t know where Mr. Tarrant got them. He said he and other members had seen no indication that Mr. Tarrant had violent intent.“He was just normal,” Mr. Williams said. “He was polite. He would help put things away. He would help set up. He worked like a Trojan.”The club has been closed until further notice, Mr. Williams said.In a live video on Facebook on Saturday, a former member of the New Zealand military named Pete Breidahl said he had reported the Bruce Rifle Club to the police years ago after a visit because he had “serious concerns about the mental stability of some of those members.”He also posted an image of a comment dated Nov. 20, 2017, about the club, in which he said that at least half the members would be going home to “their mums basement and onto the internet for a night of heroic talk in gun forums.”Mr. Williams declined to comment on Mr. Breidahl’s Facebook video.The airport in Dunedin, the city where the suspect in the Christchurch shootings had lived, was closed Sunday evening after a “report of a suspicious package on the airfield,” the authorities said.“Police are at the scene and specialist teams have been deployed to determine the nature of the package,” the New Zealand police said in a statement.Earlier Sunday evening, an armed police officer stood watch outside the address in Dunedin that was listed in court documents as the home of Brenton Harrison Tarrant, the suspect. About a five-minute drive from the center of Dunedin, the second-largest city on the South Island of New Zealand, the pale blue-gray house had air-conditioning units, wide rectangular windows with open curtains, a satellite dish sitting at the top of a cement stairway and an overgrown yard. The mailbox bore a sticker reading: “NO JUNK MAIL. Thank you!”Several people who lived nearby said they did not know many of their neighbors and had not met Mr. Tarrant. They described the neighborhood in the Andersons Bay suburb of Dunedin as a mix of rented and owned homes.Carl Tainui, who lives nearby, was out walking Sunday evening and said he was “shocked” that such “total hatred” had allegedly originated so close to his home.Over the weekend, the police had blocked off the road in the Dunedin neighborhood while a bomb squad searched the area. The street was shut down from Friday evening until midday Saturday. By Sunday evening, journalists swarmed the area, knocking on doors and filming outside Mr. Tarrant’s house.Amy Hanson, 28, moved into a house across the street from Mr. Tarrant’s last year.She said that she had seen Mr. Tarrant’s address listed last week on a rental site for $280 a week and that her sister’s boyfriend had planned to view the property last Tuesday. She said the listing had since been removed.“He must have planned to move out, knew he was going to go to jail or die,” she said. “The weirdest thing is, he is my age. He is so young. I just don’t get it.”Thirty-four victims of the shootings remain in Christchurch Hospital, 12 of them in critical condition, officials said on Sunday.A 4-year-old girl also remains in critical condition at a children’s hospital in Auckland, where she was flown after the attack.A Christchurch Hospital spokesman, David Meates, said that on Saturday the hospital treated nine new victims of the Friday attack. They arrived with cuts, embedded glass fragments and injuries to their backs, knees and feet.Mr. Meates said the hospital was running seven operating theaters on Sunday instead of the usual three.“Many of these people need multiple surgeries due to the complex nature of their injuries, and the need to provide a number of shorter surgeries in a phased way so patients have the best chance of recovery,” he said.Ms. Ardern said the list of people killed was still provisional and that the families of victims would receive financial assistance. She said families would receive the bodies of victims starting Sunday evening, with all bodies expected to be returned by Wednesday.[Here’s how to help the victims of the Christchurch shootings.]A live video posted to social media appeared to show the attack at Al Noor Mosque, where 42 people were killed. The clip appeared to have been taken from a camera worn by a gunman.3 The gunman’s video shows him driving away six minutes after the first shot.1 The gunman parked inthe alley next to the mosque,according to the live video.Al NoorMosqueDeans Ave.2 He openedfire at around1:40 p.m.Re-entered mosque and began firingResumed firingoutside the mosqueShot abystanderFirst shot firedParkedExited mosqueGot new gun fromparked carExitedmosqueDroveaway1 min.later234563 The gunman’s video shows him driving away six minutes after the first shot.1 The gunman parked inthe alley next to the mosque,according to the live video.SouthHagleyParkAl NoorMosqueDeans Ave.2 He opened fire ataround 1:40 p.m.Re-enteredmosque andbegan firingResumed firingoutside the mosqueShot abystanderFirst shot firedParkedExited mosqueGot a new gunfrom the parked carLeft mosqueDroveaway1 minute later234563 The gunman’s video shows him driving away six minutes after the first shot.1 The gunman parked inthe alley next to the mosque,according to the live video.Al NoorMosqueDeans Ave.South Hagley Park2 He opened fire ataround 1:40 p.m.Resumed firingoutside the mosqueRe-entered mosqueand began firingShot abystanderFirst shot firedParkedExited mosqueGot a new gunfrom the parked carLeft mosqueDroveaway1 minute later23456By Jin Wu and Allison McCann | Note: Times are local time.The airline Air New Zealand said one of its employees, Lilik Abdul Hamid, had died in the attack on Friday.The company’s chief executive, Christopher Luxon, said in a statement that Mr. Hamid had been an aircraft maintenance engineer with Air New Zealand for 16 years.“He first got to know the team even earlier when he worked with our aircraft engineers in a previous role overseas,” Mr. Luxon said. “The friendships he made at that time led him to apply for a role in Air New Zealand and make the move to Christchurch.”Mr. Hamid is survived by his wife and two children, Mr. Luxon said.Later on Sunday, the company PricewaterhouseCoopers said that one of its employees, Areeb Ahmed, had also been killed.In a Facebook post, the company said it had learned of Mr. Ahmed’s death from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs in Pakistan.“Areeb was a loved and respected member of our PwC family who lived our values every day,” it said. “His smile, warmth, dedication, respect and humor will be deeply missed.”The prime minister also said that Sheryl Sandberg, the chief operating officer of Facebook, had shared her condolences over the shootings, parts of which were live-streamed on the social media platform.On Sunday, Facebook said it had removed 1.5 million videos of the attack that had been posted worldwide, including 1.2 million that were blocked at upload. The company said it was also removing edited versions of the video that did not show graphic content.The police on Sunday said the death toll had risen to 50 as officials discovered another body at the mosque on Deans Avenue, where most of the victims had been killed. Another 50 people were injured.“As of last night we were able to take all of the victims from both of those scenes and in doing so we have located a further victim,” said Mike Bush, New Zealand’s police commissioner.Mr. Bush said a list of victims’ names has been compiled with the help of senior religious leaders and had been shared with family members. He said the list was an informal one, though, and officials would not confirm the names publicly until the bodies had been formally identified.The bodies have not yet been released to the victims’ families, but Mr. Bush said he was conscious that Muslim religious practice requires prompt burial.“We are aware of the cultural and religious needs so we are doing that as quickly and sensitively as possible,” he said.Police officials say it took 36 minutes from when they received the first call about a shooting at a mosque to when the suspect was taken in custody.“That is an incredibly fast response time,” said John Price, commander of the district police. “You have a mobile offender across a large metropolitan city, and I am very happy with the response of our staff.”“I can tell you that within six minutes of police being called, on 111, within six minutes armed police staff were on the scene,” Mike Bush, New Zealand’s police commissioner, said on Sunday. “Within 10 minutes, our armed offenders squad were on the scene, and within 36 minutes, we had that mobile offender in our custody.”Officials said the gunman arrived at a second mosque, where he continued his rampage, seven minutes after leaving the first.The suspect was later arrested in a car, which was carrying improvised explosive devices, by two police officers. Mr. Bush said the officers prevented further deaths.“Those two police officers acted with absolute courage,” Mr. Bush said on Sunday. “I’m so proud of what they’ve done. They have prevented further deaths and risked their lives doing so.”Prime Minister Jacinda Ardern said that nine minutes before the attack, her office was among more than 30 lawmakers and news organizations that received a manifesto purported to be from the gunman. In accordance with protocol, her office forwarded it to parliamentary security within two minutes of receiving it, she said.Had the manifesto provided details that could have been acted on immediately, Ms. Ardern said, her office would have acted on them. She said she had read parts of the manifesto, which she called “deeply disturbing.”Abdul Aziz, 48, was in the Linwood mosque praying with his four sons when he heard gunshots. He immediately knew something was wrong.Rather than running from the sound, he ran toward it and grabbed the first thing he could find — a credit card machine — and flung it at the attacker. He tried to distract the attacker in a move that many fellow worshipers have described as heroic, weaving through cars in the parking lot, attempting to draw the gunman’s attention away from the mosque.Latef Alabi, the acting imam of Linwood, told The Associated Press he believed the death toll would have been far higher at the mosque without Mr. Aziz’s actions.Mr. Aziz said he saw the attacker drop one of his guns and managed to grab it but when he pulled the trigger, the gun was empty. When the gunman went to his car, presumably to grab more ammunition, Mr. Aziz said he threw the gun at the assailant’s windshield, shattering the glass. The assailant sped away.Mr. Aziz remained humble, saying in an interview with The New York Times that anyone in his position would have done the same. “I was prepared to give my life to save another life,” he said.Originally from Kabul, Afghanistan, Mr. Aziz lived in Australia for 27 years after having fled the violence of his home country. He moved to New Zealand a few years ago, describing it as a beautiful country.Reporting was contributed by Charlotte Graham-McLay, Damien Cave and Jamie Tarabay from Christchurch, New Zealand; Emily Steel from Dunedin, New Zealand; and Sarah Mervosh from New York.AdvertisementSupported byLet us help you start your day.By Alisha Haridasani Gupta(Want to get this briefing by email? Here’s the sign-up.) Good morning. New Zealand investigates how the massacre could have been avoided, China gets a toehold in Europe and Apple prepares to unveil its next big thing. Here’s the latest: Prime Minister Jacinda Ardern ordered an inquiry into whether government agencies could have prevented the attacks at two mosques in Christchurch on Friday that left at least 50 dead.Her cabinet also agreed “in principle” to overhaul the country’s gun laws and will announce reforms “within 10 days of this horrific act of terrorism,” she said at a news conference.The victims: New Zealand’s deputy police commissioner said specialists had worked through the night to identify the people killed at the Al Noor and Linwood mosques. Islamic leaders and victims’ families have been discussing holding a burial for all victims, possibly on Wednesday.The suspect: Our reporter went to the town of Dunedin, home to the suspected gunman, and spoke to people he interacted with, including members of his rifle club.Perspective: Our Opinion section has essays examining the traits white supremacist terrorists have in common and the history of white supremacist violence. At least one gunman opened fire on a tram in the city of Utrecht, killing three people and injuring five more.Officials arrested a suspect — a 37-year-old Turkish-born man — after an eight-hour manhunt, but it’s still unclear whether he was the only person involved in the attack.Authorities said they were looking into the possibility the shooting was an act of terror, with the counterterrorism agency raising its threat assessment to the highest level. They had also ordered the evacuation of all mosques in the city, but it’s unclear if that move stems from a specific threat or as a precaution in the wake of the attack in New Zealand. But they didn’t rule out other motives, and some reports suggested the attack was the result of a domestic dispute.Context: The city of Utrecht has a large immigrant population, with more than 30 percent of residents born outside the Netherlands. The attack took place in the Kanaleneiland neighborhood, home to a large number of Muslims, including immigrants from Morocco and Turkey. This week, President Xi Jinping is expected to arrive in Rome to sign a deal that would make Italy the first Group of 7 nation to participate in Beijing’s global Belt and Road initiative.The deal would open Italy to greater Chinese infrastructure investment in exchange for favorable customs conditions and a faster trade route into the heart of Europe.The vast project is already underway in the port city of Trieste. Construction workers in scuba gear have been laying foundations near the site of a new pier. Other cities up for a transformation include Genoa and Palermo.Concerns: The U.S. and E.U. powers like Germany and France have been wary of Beijing’s Belt and Road project, casting it as an economic and perhaps even military threat.Supporters of the plan in Italy, however, have few reservations, saying the country’s laws protect its autonomy.The kingdom has a history of going after dissidents and other Saudi citizens abroad, but the efforts escalated sharply after Prince Mohammed bin Salman was elevated to crown prince in 2017.The prince authorized a clandestine campaign that included the surveillance, kidnapping, detention and torture of Saudi citizens, according to American officials who have read classified reports about the efforts.Since then, Saudi security forces have detained dozens of clerics, intellectuals and activists who were perceived to pose a threat, as well as people who had posted critical or sarcastic comments about the government on Twitter.Details: At least a dozen missions were carried out by the same team that killed Jamal Khashoggi in October, suggesting that the gruesome murder was part of a broader push, according to officials and associates of some of the Saudi victims.The group behind Mr. Khashoggi’s killing, which American officials called the Saudi Rapid Intervention Group, also forcibly repatriated Saudis from other Arab countries and detained and abused prisoners in palaces belonging to the crown prince and his father, King Salman. Afghanistan: Three months after the country’s soccer chief, Keramuddin Keram, was accused of sexually abusing members of the women’s national team, an investigation has stalled, amid fears it will never proceed.Britain: The speaker of the House of Commons, John Bercow, warned Prime Minister Theresa May that she could not hold a third vote in Parliament on her beleaguered Brexit plan unless it was substantially different from the proposal already been rejected twice.India: Gauri Lankesh, a journalist who railed against the right-wing Hindu-nationalist Bharatiya Janata Party, or B.J.P., was shot dead in September. We take a deep look at her story and what it reveals about the country’s increasingly intolerant politics.The Philippines: A beached whale died with 88 pounds of plastic trash inside its body, an unusually large amount that brought renewed attention to ocean pollution.#MeToo: Nearly 100 female economists in the U.S. say that a peer or colleague has sexually assaulted them, and nearly 200 say they were the victims of an attempted assault, according to a new survey that reveals deep evidence of gender and racial discrimination in the field.Lyft: The ride-hailing app — and Uber’s main rival in North America — hopes to be valued at up to $23 billion, according to filings ahead of its initial public offering, most likely the year’s biggest.The Prado: As Spain’s national art museum celebrates its bicentennial, our writer — who has visited more than 200 times — returned to every gallery, vestibule and passageway.Apple: The tech giant’s next big product isn’t a new device, but a billion-dollar-plus foray into streaming video. The company is expected to reveal details of the project next week.Spain: A bar in Madrid celebrating the dictator Gen. Francisco Franco and catering to the radical right is run by a Chinese man — an irony that has not gone unnoticed by patrons. “We used to joke to him,” one said. “If Franco was still alive, he would kill you.”Tips for a more fulfilling life.Recipe of the day: Sometimes only a hearty pasta dinner will do, like rigatoni with wilted greens, bacon and a fried egg.We all have rivals in our work lives. They’re our closest competitors — and they can be our greatest allies.Doctors answer questions about the benefits and drawbacks of retinols found in skin-care products.New Zealanders have lit candles, piled flowers and stood vigil since a gunman attacked two mosques in Christchurch, killing at least 50 people.They have also performed the haka.The ceremonial dance originated with the Maori, the country’s indigenous Polynesian inhabitants. Warriors danced to intimidate opponents with grimaces, chanting and aggressive postures. But there are also hakas of welcome and hakas for funerals.The form has been embraced by New Zealanders of all origins, most famously by the national rugby team, the All Blacks. Many schools have haka groups, and every two years, there’s a national competition hosted by one of the country’s iwi, or tribes.A variety of haka have been performed for the Christchurch victims. For instance, a biker group, Black Power, used a warlike haka to express solidarity.Others performed one of the most famous hakas, “Ka mate,” a tribute to life in the face of death.Andrea Kannapell, the briefings editor, wrote today’s Back Story.Your Morning Briefing is published weekday mornings and updated online. Sign up here to get it by email in the Australian, Asian, European or American morning. You can also receive an Evening Briefing on U.S. weeknights.And our Australia bureau chief offers a weekly letter adding analysis and conversations with readers.Browse our full range of Times newsletters here.AdvertisementSupported byBy Damien Cave and Emily SteelCHRISTCHURCH, New Zealand — The man accused of carrying out the attack that killed 50 people at two mosques in Christchurch, New Zealand, is expected to represent himself in court, but the country’s prime minister said on Tuesday that she wants to do everything possible to deny him the attention he craves.“He is a terrorist. He is a criminal. He is an extremist,” Prime Minister Jacinda Ardern said in an address to Parliament. “But he will, when I speak, be nameless.”“And to others, I implore you,” she added, “speak the names of those who were lost, rather than the name of the man who took them. He may have sought notoriety, but we in New Zealand will give him nothing. Not even his name.”Her comments — which included a demand for internet platforms like Facebook to do a better job controlling hateful content — reflect a global struggle that has caught this small, open and friendly country by surprise: how to avoid fueling fame for a man accused of killing and his message even as officials and the news media try to better understand the forces that led to his apparent radicalization.[Read more about the victims of the attack, who spanned generations and nationalities.]The push to deny oxygen for what feels like a perpetual flame of hate has been gathering momentum ever since the attack, and reaches beyond the government.On Tuesday, New Zealand’s largest broadband providers published an open letter to the chief executives of Facebook, Twitter and Google, calling on them “to be a part of an urgent discussion at an industry and New Zealand government level” about how to deny access to content created by the suspected killer, Brenton Harrison Tarrant, 28.The companies — Vodafone NZ, Spark and 2degrees — acknowledged suspending access to websites that were hosting video footage of the Friday attacks that had been streamed live online. But they said there was only so much they could do without more engagement from the tech platforms.“Internet service providers are the ambulance at the bottom of the cliff, with blunt tools involving the blocking of sites after the fact,” the companies said, adding that social media companies “have a legal duty of care to protect their users and wider society by preventing the uploading and sharing of content such as this video.”The Association of New Zealand Advertisers also said in a statement Tuesday that local businesses were considering pulling their ads from Facebook, questioning whether they wanted to be “associated with social media platforms unable or unwilling to take responsibility for content on those sites.”“The events in Christchurch raise the question — if the site owners can target consumers with advertising in microseconds, why can’t the same technology be applied to prevent this kind of content being streamed live?” the group said.Facebook, in an effort to combat the criticism, updated details Monday on how the gunman’s video of the shooting spread. The company said that video of the live broadcast was viewed 4,000 times, but it also said that within the first 24 hours it pulled about 1.5 million copied videos of the attack.Of those, more than 1.2 million videos were blocked as they had been uploaded, and the company also said it cut off content that looked or sounded similar.Missing from the data was the total number of views for all versions of the video.[Read about how the Christchurch attack became an internet-native mass shooting.]The gunman’s efforts were clearly choreographed for internet fame and to spread a message of hate. Minutes before the attacks started, he published a manifesto to message boards where white supremacists gather, and included a link to the page where the streaming video of the shooting would appear.But experts say it may not be enough to focus just on that content. New Zealand, like many countries, has often struggled with how seriously to take white supremacy, offline and online.Anjum Rahman, the head of the Islamic Women’s Council of New Zealand, reported that her organization had tried to warn the government for years about growing vitriol toward Muslims and the rise of the so-called alt-right in New Zealand. In an op-ed for The Spinoff, a news website, she said her organization had asked for help from New Zealand’s security agencies and had written a “comprehensive report” for the government five years ago, outlining the group’s concerns.“As far as we know, nothing concrete was done with that report,” she wrote.In fact, one of the two mosques attacked Friday had pigs’ heads delivered to it in 2016 by men who gave Nazi salutes.Jarrod Gilbert, a University of Canterbury sociologist who studies gangs in New Zealand, said that when Christchurch had a problem in the 1980s and 1990s with white supremacist skinheads, the authorities tended to dismiss them as a fringe group “because people never really wanted them here.”He and other experts said it was important to distinguish between those gangs, which tended to draw lower-class and disenfranchised members, and the alt-right, which pulls in a wider demographic that’s more unpredictable and engaged with the theory and rhetoric of white nationalism.“They’re entirely different, and this poses very different challenges,” he said. “The street thugs are easy to monitor, count, and counter; international online communities are very difficult to monitor.”[How The Times covered the shootings.]Part of the issue is that these groups are often private, hard to find and steeped in anonymity, and their words rarely translate into action.And yet what the Christchurch attacks now show — according to government officials, including the prime minister — is that these groups need to be carefully watched because a handful of adherents may be motivated to act violently.“There is no question that ideas and language of division and hate have existed for decades, but their form of distribution, the tools of organization — they are new,” Ms. Ardern said Tuesday.And in the aftermath of such attacks, the cycle of attention can amplify risk. Studies have shown that terrorists often try to up the ante from the last high-profile attack. Ms. Ardern said Monday that her government was dealing with a flood of copycat threats and messages of hate.The multiplier effect could also be seen on websites where white supremacists have tended to gather. While websites for at least two white nationalist groups in New Zealand — the New Zealand National Front and Dominion Movement — were disabled in the wake of Friday’s shooting, cached versions still allow readers to view the immediate responses to attacks.On a cached site for the National Front, which has campaigned under the slogan, “It’s O.K. to be white,” reactions to the attack were divided. Some commenters expressed compassion for the victims, while others said the shootings were a “natural outcome.”“This is ‘bad optics.’ I hope and pray that no one in the ethno-nationalist community has had anything to do with this,” one person wrote. “Because we know what’s coming: government crackdown, surveillance, increased gun control and an emboldened Antifa harassing us.”Another person called the shootings a “brutal wake-up call” and said the victims deserved “no sympathy.”A user called Celtic Warrior said, “Harsh medicine, indeed, but sadly, very necessary.”The Dominion Movement is a year-old group that describes itself as a “fraternity of young New Zealand nationalists” united by the belief that “Europeans are the defining people of this nation and that they were essential in its creation.”“We oppose the animosity and contempt this system holds for us and our people, we reject the entire concept of White guilt,” a cached version of its website reads.As of Tuesday, the group’s Twitter and Instagram accounts had been suspended.Whether these groups or others have a chance to amplify whatever Mr. Tarrant says when he appears in court — his next appearance is scheduled for April 5 — is still unknown. The judge in the case could ban cameras or find other ways to suppress information, according to lawyers.Richard Peters, the duty lawyer at the suspected gunman’s first court appearance Saturday, said he didn’t know whether the man’s decision to represent himself would draw more attention to the case or less.But for Ms. Ardern and many others, his efforts are best ignored, in court, and on the internet.“I don’t have all of the answers now, but we must collectively find them,” she said. “And we must act.”Charlotte Graham-McLay contributed reporting.Want more coverage from Australia and New Zealand? Sign up for the weekly Australia Letter, start your day with your local Morning Briefing and join us in our Facebook group.AdvertisementSupported byBy ReutersSydney (Reuters) - Australia's Senate censured an independent right-wing lawmaker on Wednesday for his comments that New Zealand's mosques shooting massacre which left 50 people dead was a result of letting "Muslim fanatics" migrate to the country.Senator Fraser Anning has been widely condemned for his comments made shortly after a lone gunman attacked two mosques in Christchurch on March 15."There is no room for racism in Australia. Sadly, what Senator Anning said after the Christchurch massacre, however shocking isn't out of character," Australian Muslim Senator Mehreen Faruqi told the Senate."Just a week before I joined this place, he gave a speech calling for a ban on people like me coming to this country."Australian Brenton Tarrant, 28, a suspected white supremacist, has been charged with one murder following the attack and was remanded without a plea. He is due back in court on April 5, when police said he was likely to face more charges.Sitting for the first time since the attack, Australia's upper house overwhelmingly passed a censure motion against Anning - the first such public rebuke of a lawmaker in four years. A censure motion has no direct legal consequences but acts as an expression of the Senate's disapproval.Senator Anning denied he had blamed the victims, insisting the censure was an attack on his civil liberties."This censure motion against me is a blatant attack on free speech," Anning told Reuters via email. Leaders of the major parties in the Senate condemned Anning's comments, with opposition Labor Senator Penny Wong rejecting his "free speech" defense."There is a difference between freedom of speech and hate speech. The former is a feature of our democracy. The latter is an attack on democracy," Wong said."This motion makes it clear he doesn’t speak for us. He doesn’t speak for the Senate. He doesn’t speak for this nation. He doesn’t represent Australian values."AdvertisementSupported byBy Damien CaveCHRISTCHURCH, New Zealand — One week after a terrorist attack that killed 50 people at two mosques in Christchurch, New Zealand, mourners who came from around the world honored the dead Friday by sharing the Muslim call to prayer and two minutes of silence.In a park across from Al Noor Mosque, where 42 worshipers were killed, traditional Friday Prayer became a communal event, drawing together Muslims from afar, relatives of the dead and New Zealanders in headscarves experiencing an Islamic service for the first time.“This terrorist sought to tear our nation apart with an evil ideology that has torn the world apart — but instead we have shown that New Zealand is unbreakable,” Imam Gamal Fouda of Al Noor Mosque said, drawing applause from those gathered.“Islamophobia kills,” he said later, adding: “The rise of white supremacy and right-wing extremism is a great global threat to mankind and this must end now.”His comments, mixing appreciation with broader warnings about hate and fear, came on a day when Christchurch buried at least 26 of the victims killed in the terrorist attack.With a few exceptions, the process of releasing bodies to families was finally coming to a close seven days after the massacre, prompting waves of sadness, relief and reflection.[Read more about the victims of the attack, who spanned generations and nationalities, and their families’ struggle for closure.]The mood at the park — between the mosque’s golden dome and Christchurch Hospital, where 27 of the 42 people wounded in the attack remained under care — was solemn and cautious.“People are very sad and very weary and sometimes frightened,” said Rachael Larkin, 56, an environmental scientist from Christchurch who attended Friday’s prayer service. “But we’re also very proud.”The past few days have included a flood of proposed solutions to the violence, along with challenges.On Thursday, Prime Minister Jacinda Ardern unveiled a ban on military-style semiautomatic weapons and the ammunition and parts that were used in the shootings — an overhaul of gun laws that she hopes to have fully in place by April 11.Her quick action is a source of pride for many New Zealanders. Within the first few hours of the prime minister’s announcement, more than 300 gun owners filled out forms to turn in weapons that were the targets of the ban.Ms. Ardern also pledged this week to work with other countries on holding social media companies accountable for letting hateful speech thrive on their platforms.Funerals, which were few and far between for most of the week as families pressed officials for the bodies of their loves ones, suddenly were being conducted with heartbreaking efficiency.At Linwood Cemetery, where 50 graves waited to be filled near a large eucalyptus tree, imams told a crowd of thousands to make room for family members who moved ahead slowly in groups every few minutes to pray and then carry their dead.“We did not expect this,” one of the imams leading the service said, “but it is not we who decide — it is Allah.”The first person buried Friday was Naeem Rashid, who tried to tackle the gunman in Al Noor before being shot and killed. Relatives from Pakistan and Christchurch moved in unison as they carried his body above their shoulders.He was followed by 27 more, including the 3-year-old Mucaad Ibrahim, the youngest killed in the shooting, and Atta Elayyan, 33, a New Zealand futsal player who ran an app development company.With each procession, the mourning family spoke the Janazah funeral prayer inside a white tent, then moved on to make room for the next group of grieving relatives.“We will call all the families, and all the families will get a chance to stand with their loved ones,” said Sheikh Mohammad Amir, the chairman of the religious advisory board of the Federation of Islamic Associations of New Zealand.Near the edge of the cemetery, photographers and camera crews from around the world captured the series of final goodbyes. The day before, six people had been buried.“There are some people who wanted to get it over with quickly,” said Mustafa Farouk, the federation’s president. “There were some others thinking ‘This doesn’t just affect us, it affects the whole world — and maybe there should be some light from this darkness.’”Finding hope but also resolve seemed to be the focus at the prayer service. Imam Fouda began with a direct reference to his own experience with the suspected gunman, Brenton H. Tarrant.“Last Friday, I stood in this mosque and saw hatred and rage in the eyes of the terrorist who killed and martyred 50 innocent people, wounded 42 and broke the hearts of millions around the world,” he said.“Today,” he continued, “from the same place, I look out and I see the love and compassion in the eyes of thousands of fellow New Zealanders and human beings from across the globe, that fills the hearts of millions more who are not with us physically but in spirit.”He thanked the emergency medical workers and all who attended, calling them his “Muslim and non-Muslim brothers.”But he also said the attacks “did not come overnight.”“It was the result of the anti-Muslim rhetoric of some political leaders, media agencies and others,” he said.He added: “Last week’s event is proof and evidence to the entire world that terrorism has no color, has no race, and has no religion.”Ms. Ardern, in her own short speech, echoed those thoughts and those of many others who were sitting silently in the grass.“New Zealand mourns with you,” she said. “We are one.”AdvertisementSupported byBy Catie EdmondsonWASHINGTON — The House this week is set to pass the first major gun control legislation in over two decades, with Democratic lawmakers expected to approve two measures strengthening background checks for all firearms sales.The last time the House put high-profile legislation expanding gun control laws to a vote was in 1994, when it passed the Federal Assault Weapons Ban and made it illegal to manufacture a number of semiautomatic weapons for civilian use. That legislation expired after a decade and was not renewed by a Republican-controlled Congress.But riding a new wave of urgency after a series of mass shootings — and the activism inspired by the school massacre in Parkland, Fla., last February in which 17 students and teachers were killed — House Democrats have pledged to take meaningful action on the issue, beginning with the twin bills.Here’s what you need to know about the measures and their odds in the Senate.The Bipartisan Background Checks Act, which the House will take up on Wednesday, requires universal background checks, closing a loophole for buyers at gun shows and online. The legislation, sponsored by Representative Mike Thompson, Democrat of California and the chairman of the House Gun Violence Prevention Task Force, also prohibits firearms transfers by a person who is not a licensed dealer. There are a number of exceptions, though, such as a family member giving a firearm as a gift, or lending a gun to someone in imminent danger.The second piece of legislation, the Enhanced Background Checks Act, will be voted on Thursday. Sponsored by Representative James E. Clyburn of South Carolina, the majority whip, the bill seeks to extend the initial background check review period to 10 days from three.Under federal law, the F.B.I. has three business days to perform its review and determine whether there is sufficient evidence to deny a purchase. If it is unable to do so, on the fourth day, the customer can return to the dealer and buy a gun. That loophole allowed Dylann S. Roof, the man who killed nine people at a historically black church in Charleston, S.C., in 2015, to purchase a .45-caliber handgun even though he had previously admitted to drug possession, which should have barred him from legally obtaining the weapon.A vast majority of guns used in 19 recent mass shootings — including those in Newtown, Conn.; San Bernardino, Calif.; and Las Vegas — were bought legally and after the gunman passed a federal background check. At least nine attackers had criminal histories or documented mental health problems that did not prevent them from obtaining their weapons.“The new gun control restrictions currently being considered by the Democratic majority in H.R. 8 would not have prevented my shooting,” Representative Steve Scalise of Louisiana, the Republican whip, said of the Bipartisan Background Checks Act. Mr. Scalise was gravely wounded in 2017 when a gunman fired on members of the Republican congressional baseball team while they were practicing in Virginia.But gun control advocates have praised the measures as a meaningful step toward change, and described the legislation as a necessary foundation for future work. Last year, the existing background check system identified and denied 88,000 gun sales to prohibited buyers including criminals and domestic abusers, according to Mr. Thompson’s office — but those same people are currently able to make purchases at gun shows or online.“We have fairly weak gun laws and we have loopholes that make it easy to have the levels of gun violence that we have right now, and we certainly have to do more to address it,” said Robin Lloyd, the managing director of the Giffords Law Center to Prevent Gun Violence. “But it is a critical first step.”The bills introduced by House Democrats closely mirror the last major attempt in the Senate to pass a gun control measure. Efforts led by Senator Patrick J. Toomey, Republican of Pennsylvania, and Senator Joe Manchin III, Democrat of West Virginia, to require background checks at gun shows and online failed in the Democratic-led Senate in 2013 and again in the Republican-led Senate in 2015.Otherwise, in the last two decades, most firearms legislation taken up by Congress has aimed to relax gun laws, such as attempts in the House and Senate to pass a concealed-carry reciprocity law allowing a person permitted to carry a concealed weapon in one state to carry it in every state.AdvertisementSupported byBy The Associated PressYour daily look at late-breaking news, upcoming events and the stories that will be talked about today:1. HOW MANY WAYS YOU CAN MEASURE 1ST QUARTER OF YEARFor Democratic presidential candidates, it is 300-plus events, 24 states and hundreds of voter questions — and that's 10 months out from the Iowa caucus.2. LAPD IDENTIFIES SUSPECT IN NIPSEY HUSSLE SLAYINGPolice are searching for 29-year-old Eric Holder, who they believe shot and killed the rapper outside his clothing store where he was trying to remake his South Los Angeles community.3. EU CHIEF NEGOTIATOR PESSIMISTIC OF DEALMichel Barnier says that Britain's disorderly exit from the bloc without a deal is becoming more likely by the day, though he still hopes to avoid it.4. CHICAGO ABOUT TO MAKE MAYORAL HISTORYWhen they meet in a runoff election, either Lori Lightfoot or Toni Preckwinkle will be the first African American woman to lead the nation's third largest city.5. WHAT MAY NEVER BE SOLVEDThe real masterminds behind the murder of North Korean leader Kim Jong Un's estranged half brother may never be brought to justice.6. POPE: WOMEN HAVE 'LEGITIMATE CLAIMS' FOR JUSTICE, EQUALITYBut Francis stops short of endorsing more sweeping calls from his own bishops to give women decision-making roles in the Catholic Church.7. AMSTERDAM SEX WORKERS SEE RED OVER TOUR BANThe sex workers' union questions whether banning red light district tours will reduce tourists and argues that guides educate visitors and teach respect.8. NEW ZEALAND PASSES NEW GUN CONTROL MEASURELawmakers overwhelmingly back a bill that would ban the types of weapons a gunman used last month to kill 50 people at two mosques.9. WHO'S RUNNING FOR OFFICEMichael Brown's mother could soon have oversight over the police department connected to her son's death, if voters in Ferguson, Missouri, elect her to the City Council.AdvertisementSupported byBy The Associated PressISLAMABAD — Pakistan celebrated its national day on Saturday with a military parade showcasing its missiles, tanks and aircraft, even as the prime minister and his Indian counterpart exchanged goodwill messages in a sign of easing tensions between the nuclear-armed rivals.Indian Prime Minister Narendra Modi offered "best wishes" to his counterpart Imran Khan ahead of Saturday's celebrations. Khan welcomed the statement late Friday and called for a comprehensive dialogue on all issues, including the disputed Kashmir region.Tensions between India and Pakistan flared last month after a suicide attack killed 40 Indian paramilitary soldiers in the Indian-controlled portion of Kashmir. The Indian air force launched an airstrike inside Pakistan, saying it was targeting militants it blamed for the bombing.Pakistan retaliated and said it shot down two Indian air force planes. One pilot was captured and later released. India says it lost only one plane.Pakistan's President Arif Alvi marked the national day by saying the region needs peace, not war, and that Pakistan wants to live peacefully with its neighbors. He said Pakistan's war is against hunger, poverty and unemployment."Our desire for peace shouldn't be construed as our weakness. Let's end the hatred and sow the seeds of peace in this region for prosperity of the people," Alvi said.Malaysian Prime Minister Mahathir Mohamad was the chief guest of the parade, in which troops marched through the streets of Islamabad and warplanes staged acrobatic flyovers. Authorities suspended mobile phone services and blocked roads as part of security precautions.AdvertisementSupported byBy Timothy Williams and Sean PiccoliMuslims in cities across the United States walked past heavily armed police officers to attend services Friday, hours after a gunman killed at least 49 people at two mosques in New Zealand. They pored over news reports with a mixture of grief and disgust, feeling familiar fears of being targeted for their religious beliefs.Throughout a tense day, law enforcement officials and political leaders assured Muslims that they would be protected as they prepared for Friday Prayer, the very thing the victims had been doing when they died.[Read our live briefing for the latest updates on the attacks.]The news trickled out overnight in dread-inducing bulletins as the death toll climbed by the hour. The United States is home to about 3.5 million Muslims, or 1 percent of the nation’s population. Some said they had stayed up all night, unable to tear themselves away from the coverage, as difficult as it was to take in.Nihad Awad, national executive director of the Council on American-Islamic Relations, the country’s largest Muslim civil rights and advocacy organization, said that Muslims around the world were in mourning and that the attacks were part of a rising intolerance in the United States and abroad.“Do not be afraid, and do not abandon your mosques — not today, not ever,” Mr. Awad said at a news conference in Washington. “They want you to be afraid. You should not be afraid.”Police departments in major American cities intensified security around houses of worship. At some mosques in New York, clusters of police officers wearing tactical gear and armed with semiautomatic rifles stood sentry as worshipers entered for prayer.Mayor Bill de Blasio said that the city had increased its police presence at mosques “out of an abundance of caution.”“New Yorkers heading to prayer can be confident that their city will protect them,” he said.At the At-Taqwa mosque in Brooklyn’s Bedford-Stuyvesant neighborhood, three officers from the 79th Precinct stood out front greeting people.Saydu Bah, 39, who said he came frequently to worship at the mosque, stood fixated on his phone. He was watching what he said was a video of the attack that had been filmed by the gunman. The footage appeared on social media throughout the day despite attempts by Facebook, YouTube and Twitter to remove copies.“You saw?” he asked in disbelief, holding up his phone and then narrating what was happening. “He kept killing, killing, killing. Nobody stopped him.”At a mobile phone supply store nearby, Mouaad Youssef, an 18-year-old college student, stood behind the counter, talking with worshipers who had stopped by.He too had seen the massacre video. “I didn’t even want to look at it,” said Mr. Youssef, who is Muslim. “It is very bad.”He paraphrased a passage from the Quran about killing, saying, “Only God gave a soul to humanity, and he’s the only one who has the right to take it.”In Pittsburgh, where an attack last year on the Tree of Life synagogue killed 11 people, city officials said they had “heavy hearts and an all-too-intimate understanding of what the people of New Zealand are enduring.”The city said its officers had been in contact with local Muslim leaders and had increased patrols at mosques and other areas.The Jewish Federation of Greater Pittsburgh said that it had begun raising funds for the Muslim community in New Zealand. After last year’s mass shooting, Muslim organizations donated more than $200,000 to support Pittsburgh’s Jewish community.And in St. Paul, home to a large Muslim community, the Police Department assured residents that they would be protected.“We want our Muslim family members, friends and neighbors to know that we’ll do everything possible to keep you safe and secure in the city we share,” the department said on Twitter.Across the Mississippi River in North Minneapolis, Makram N. El-Amin, the imam at the Masjid An-Nur, or Mosque of Light, told worshipers that the dead in New Zealand had been doing what hundreds of millions of other Muslims take part in each week: a simple observance of Friday Prayer.“They were doing nothing more than trying to live their best lives and respond to the call of Islam,” he said. “There’s a vulnerability here.”President Trump denounced the attacks. “My warmest sympathy and best wishes goes out to the people of New Zealand after the horrible massacre in the Mosques’” he wrote on Twitter. “The U.S. stands by New Zealand for anything we can do. God bless all!”For some, the killings at the mosque revived criticism that political leaders had been partly responsible for creating an environment that had made people comfortable expressing hateful views.“The president’s rhetoric is part of the problem,” said Iman Boukadoum, a senior staff attorney with the American-Arab Anti-Discrimination Committee, a civil rights organization based in Washington.Although some Muslims expressed trepidation about worshiping on Friday, many mosques said turnout was about average.At the Masjid An-Nur in North Minneapolis, Omar Aded, 48, said he had learned about the New Zealand attacks while watching CNN.“It’s very painful,” Mr. Aded said. “No one should target another, no matter what religion — Jewish, Muslim or Christian.”“But there can be no revenge,” he added. “We have to look past the violence.”Matt Furber and Mitch Smith contributed reporting.AdvertisementSupported byBy Sarah Mervosh and Mihir ZaveriThe authorities have charged a suspect with capital murder in the fatal shooting of 7-year-old Jazmine Barnes, as an emotional case that moved the Houston community and evoked racial tensions nationwide took an unexpected turn on Sunday.The authorities identified the suspect, Eric Black Jr., 20, and said he admitted to taking part in the Dec. 30 shooting.Contrary to initial reports that the suspect was white, Mr. Black is black. It was a revelation that swiftly changed the narrative of a case that had drawn the attention of national civil rights activists amid speculation that the shooting was racially motivated.The authorities believe that Mr. Black, along with an accomplice, thought they were shooting at someone else when they opened fire on Jazmine and her family, who were in a car on an early morning coffee run.“This is most likely a case of mistaken identity,” Sheriff Ed Gonzalez of Harris County said at a news conference on Sunday.But to civil rights activists, including Shaun King, who received the tip that led to the arrest, the race of the suspect did not upend the meaning of the case — for Jazmine’s family or for the country.“We live in a time where somebody could do something like this based purely on hate or race,” he said on Sunday. “And that it turned out to not be the case I don’t think changes the devastating conclusion that people had thought something like that was possible.”The tip named Mr. Black and another man, identified by prosecutors by the initials L.W. A lawyer for Jazmine’s family, Lee Merritt, named the second suspect as Larry Woodruffe, 24, who is also black. A man with that name was booked into the Harris County jail on Sunday on a drug possession charge.At a hearing to set the bond amount in that case, prosecutors said that Mr. Woodruffe was also a suspect in a capital murder investigation, and a judge noted that Mr. Woodruffe could possibly face additional charges.Sheriff Gonzalez acknowledged a second person was involved but would not comment on their identity. He said the second person had not been charged in Jazmine’s death as of Sunday afternoon, but said that charges could be filed. Lawyers for the men could not be immediately reached for comment on Sunday.[Hundreds gathered this weekend to honor Jazmine and fight for justice in her case. Read more about the rally here.]The capital murder charge filed against Mr. Black came after a weeklong search in a case that seemed to offer few clues. Jazmine was with her mother and three sisters just before 7 a.m. when, the authorities said, a man in a truck pulled up beside them and began shooting. A bullet struck Jazmine in the head and she died at the scene, the authorities said.The authorities released grainy images of a red pickup truck and a sketch of the suspect, describing him as a thin white man in his 30s or 40s.Sheriff Gonzalez said there was indeed a red pickup truck that came to a stop at a traffic signal next to Jazmine and her family, near a Walmart in the Houston area where the shooting happened. But the authorities now believe that driver could be a witness to the shooting.Jazmine was with her mother, LaPorsha Washington, and her sisters, including a 6-year-old and two teenagers, the authorities said. Ms. Washington, who was injured in the shooting, told CNN she did not see the gunman but her teenage daughter described him as a white man with blue eyes.“This just went down very quickly,” Sheriff Gonzalez said. “When the gunfire erupted, we are talking about small children, they witnessed something very traumatic. And it’s very likely the last thing they did see was that red truck and the driver in that truck.”Research has shown that stress levels and conditions at the time of a crime can undercut the accuracy of eyewitness identification. The sheriff and the family said the sun had not yet risen when the shooting happened.“Eyewitness testimony is the least reliable evidence you can have,” said Lori Brown, a criminologist at Meredith College in North Carolina, who said that people generally try to understand how a traumatic event could have happened by using what they know about the world. “Unfortunately,” she said, “we fill in the gaps.”After Jazmine’s killing, the public mobilized to help the family. On Saturday, the day before the arrest was announced, nearly 1,000 people gathered at a rally in Houston, clutching banners and shouting for justice for Jazmine, who was in second grade at a Houston-area school.DeAndre Hopkins, a wide receiver for the Houston Texans, had pledged to donate his paycheck from this weekend’s playoff game, which amounts to $29,000, to help pay for Jazmine’s funeral. And Mr. King, a prominent racial justice activist and a columnist at The Intercept, had raised a $100,000 reward for information leading to the gunman’s arrest.Mr. King, who has five children, including a 6-year-old daughter, said he did not get involved in the case because he thought the gunman was white.“I internalized the pain of the family and tried to search as if it were my own child who was killed,” he said.He said he would move forward with distributing the reward money to the anonymous tipster should the person claim it. “Whether it fits the direction people thought the case was going or not,” he said, “it took tremendous courage for somebody to report this.”Mr. Merritt, the civil rights attorney who is representing the family, said he was glad that the racial implications of the case were taken seriously — and that Jazmine’s death got widespread attention.But it “shouldn’t only be weaponized for political purposes when the suspected killer is white,” he said. “The whole movement of Black Lives Matter is about the attention and care that is given to people of color in the face of violence.”Mr. Merritt said that while the arrest came as a surprise to Jazmine’s family, it also came as a relief, as they mourned and prepared for her burial on Tuesday.“They didn’t want a white person to be prosecuted,” he said. “They wanted the right person to be prosecuted.”Sandra E. Garcia contributed reporting.AdvertisementSupported byCritic’s PickWhen you purchase a ticket for an independently reviewed play or musical through our site, we earn an affiliate commission.By Alexis Soloski“The Shadow of a Gunman,” Sean O’Casey’s tragicomic 1923 play about gun violence, patriotism and empty rhetoric, has returned to the Irish Repertory Theater, the first production in a season devoted to his work. And like most Irish Rep shows, there’s little interest in reinterrogating the play: This is a revival, not a reinvention.Instead, the director Ciaran O’Reilly aims to show how playable “The Shadow of a Gunman” remains. Its context — the Irish war of independence — won’t be especially familiar to most audiences, but the idea of people fighting and dying for beliefs they may understand only imperfectly isn’t exactly dated.O’Casey, a luminary of the Anglo-Irish renaissance, was a satiro-comic writer with a big-time dark side and an enduring faith in human self-deception. He practiced the kind of realism in which you can smell how filthy the sheets are. Despite the comedy, the Dublin slum-dwellers who populate his plays are fully realized characters, not shabby cartoons, and he had a cocked ear for the absurd poetry of their speech. He also knew how quickly and ruinously a joke might go wrong, how comedy can in an instant turn its face to tragedy.In “The Shadow of a Gunman,” Donal Davoren (James Russell), a would-be poet, and Seumas Shields (Michael Mellamphy), a threadbare peddler with I.R.A. sympathies, share a grungy tenement room. During an ordinary morning, Seumas’s friend Mr. Maguire, an I.R.A. gunman, comes to drop off a bag, and Seumas tells Donal that everyone in the building thinks Donal is a gunman on the run. Donal doesn’t hate the idea, especially when Minnie Powell (Meg Hennessy), the Republican babe a few rooms over, implies that she finds gunmen sexy. “What danger can there be in being the shadow of a gunman,” he wonders to himself. Maybe he should look inside Maguire’s bag.Mr. O’Reilly’s production doesn’t hit any of the themes too hard. If he does locate the brutality in much of the comedy, he treats a grim play lightly. If you’re worried that you may not find gun violence especially funny, just lean back and luxuriate in the language. (The accents may take a minute to suss; you’ll get there.) Besides, the Irish Rep remains one of the most reliable places to enjoy rowdy, all-in character acting, and it’s here in plenty. The Irish Rep’s great clown John Keating, an exuberant string bean with a shock of curly hair, is nearly upstaged by Ed Malone, a younger actor built along the same pleasantly absurd lines and a deft physical comedian. Robert Langdon Lloyd does fine work, too.But when the play takes its uncorrectable skid into tragedy, there’s enough dramatic force to make you feel for the characters, even the ones you laughed at. At nearly 100 years old, O’Casey’s play still packs heat.When you purchase a ticket for an independently reviewed play or musical through our site, we earn an affiliate commission.This information was last updated on March 6, 2019 The Shadow of a GunmanIn repertory through May 25 at the Irish Repertory Theater, Manhattan; 212-727-2737, irishrep.org. Running time: 1 hour and 45 minutes.AdvertisementSupported byBy Daniel VictorA camera mounted to his head, the gunman who livestreamed part of his savage attack on two mosques in Christchurch, New Zealand, on Friday began his video by casually making reference to a current internet meme.He appeared to be steeped in the culture of the extreme-right internet. And in the terrible minutes of video that followed, he proved to be a nonchalant, unrepentant killer.As of Friday night, the gunman had not been identified by the authorities. But just before the attack began, a man who said he was a 28-year-old from Australia published a link on a right-wing forum to a 74-page manifesto, and another link on the same forum to a personal Facebook page with the video that would soon document the slaughter.Based on the video, the manifesto and social media posts, a picture has begun to emerge of a man primarily driven by white nationalism and a desire to drive cultural, political and racial wedges between people across the globe. That, he hoped, would stoke discord and, eventually, more violence between races.It is unclear whether the Facebook user is the man whom the authorities in New Zealand have charged in the shootings that have left at least 49 people dead. They have said only that the suspect is a man in his 20s.Australia’s main public broadcaster reported that the Facebook user worked as a personal trainer at a gym in the city of Grafton after finishing school in 2009 until 2011, when he left to travel overseas. Where exactly his travels took him was not immediately known, but the manifesto’s author wrote that he explored much of Europe in the spring of 2017.And a man using the same name visited the Gilgit-Baltistan administrative territory of Pakistan in October, people at two hotels there confirmed.Asghar Khan, the manager of operations at the Serena Hotel there, said the man seemed like a “nature-loving” traveler. Syed Israr Hussain, owner of the nearby Osho Thang hotel, said he stayed there for two or three days with a group of backpackers.“He was normal and polite during his stay,” Mr. Hussain said. “There was nothing out of the ordinary.”The gunman appeared to pair the shooting with the typical trolling tactics of the internet’s most far-right instigators, playing to a community of like-minded supporters online who cheered him on in real time as they watched bodies pile up. And the manifesto states plainly what usually goes unstated by internet trolls: By design, its author wanted to get everyone upset and arguing with each other.[Follow our live briefing on the Christchurch killings here.]One of the goals of his bloodshed, he wrote, was to “agitate the political enemies of my people into action, to cause them to overextend their own hand and experience the eventual and inevitable backlash as a result.” He said he wanted to “incite violence, retaliation and further divide.”The manifesto, the harrowing video and what appear to be the gunman’s social media posts feature typical white nationalist rhetoric with layers upon layers of irony and meta jokes, making it difficult to parse what is genuine and what he just thought was funny.The gunman seems to have a significant interest in history — at least, the parts that fit into a white nationalist narrative. On his weapons, he wrote the names of centuries-old military leaders who led battles against largely nonwhite forces, along with the names of men who recently carried out mass shootings of Jews and Muslims.The manifesto, steeped in anti-Muslim sentiment, refers to nonwhites as “invaders” who threaten to “replace” white people. The author says he used guns instead of other weapons because he wanted the United States to tear itself apart arguing over gun laws.His choice of language, and the specific memes he referred to, suggest a deep connection to the far-right online community. The link to the livestreamed video was first posted to the /pol/ forum of 8chan, a notorious far-right space, where the gunman was hailed as a hero after the shooting.Some of his references were subtle. As he drove to the mosque, he listened to a song associated with a 1995 Serbian nationalist video, which has recently been co-opted as a racist meme.What might appear to be a bizarre, rambling section of the manifesto was actually a relatively old meme known as Navy Seal Copypasta, a faux rant that is copied and pasted to indicate faux toughness.On 8chan, he uploaded an image titled “screw your optics,” a phrase Robert Bowers, the man accused of fatally shooting 11 people at a Pittsburgh synagogue in October, was said to have used.Other references were more mainstream. “Subscribe to PewDiePie,” the gunman’s call at the beginning of the video, is a recent meme, referring to the YouTube star whose real name is Felix Kjellberg — but the gunman’s use of the phrase should not necessarily be read as an endorsement. (PewDiePie, a polarizing figure with a populist appeal, said on Twitter that he was “absolutely sickened having my name uttered by this person.”)[Read more on PewDiePie, from 2017: what a bizarre career turn indicated about the nascent politics of social platforms.]At times, the manifesto creates dubious associations with cultural figures he knows to be lightning rods for criticism.He wrote that Candace Owens, a black conservative commentator in the United States, was most responsible for radicalizing him, a claim that seemed intended as a joke.He called President Trump “a symbol of renewed white identity and common purpose,” but mocked him as “a policy maker and leader.”He railed against diversity, praising “non diverse nations” like China, which he said most closely shared his political and social values.In a question-and-answer section of the manifesto, he asked himself: Where did he research and develop his beliefs?“The internet, of course,” he wrote. “You will not find the truth anywhere else.”An earlier version of this article misstated the status of the criminal case against the defendant in the shooting of 11 people at a Pittsburgh synagogue last October. The defendant, Robert Bowers, is accused of the crime. He has not been convicted.Nathan Ruser and Meher Ahmad contributed reporting.OpinionCharlie WarzelAdvertisementSupported byBy Reuters(Reuters) - Two people were killed and two critically wounded when a gunman opened fire on two motorists and a Metro bus in Seattle on Wednesday and then caused a collision as he tried to flee in a stolen car during the afternoon rush hour, police said.The incident unfolded in a northeastern Seattle neighborhood when the suspect approached a motorist at an intersection and shot her before walking into the street and firing on the bus, police said in a statement.The bus driver, identified by the Seattle Times newspaper and other media as Eric Stark, 53, was shot but managed to turn the bus around and head away from the assailant, police said. The suspect then approached a second motorist in a Toyota Prius and opened fire, killing the driver.The gunman climbed into the Prius as police arrived and sped away but collided with a nearby vehicle, killing that driver. Officers pursuing the suspect took him into custody after a brief standoff, police said.Authorities did not immediately offer an explanation for what might have precipitated the shooting or specify the type of weapon used."We only believe that this is a one, lone suspect involved in this random, senseless act", said Seattle Deputy Police Chief Marc Garth Green, according to NBC News. "We're outraged at what this suspect did."The unidentified suspect was taken to a Seattle hospital, where he remained under guard while being treated for injuries that were not life-threatening, according to police. Police said one motorist was killed by gunfire and the other motorist was killed in the collision. Both were men. None of the victims was immediately identified by police. The Times reported late on Wednesday that the gunman was a 33-year-old Seattle resident. The man who was fatally shot was 50 and the man who was killed in the collision was 70, it said.King County's Metro transit authority said on Twitter the bus driver had activated an emergency alarm to report being shot, and that none of his 12 passengers was injured.AdvertisementSupported byBy Reuters(Reuters) - Two people were killed and two critically wounded when a gunman opened fire on two motorists and a Metro bus in Seattle on Wednesday and then caused a collision as he tried to flee in a stolen car during the afternoon rush hour, police said.The incident unfolded in a northeastern Seattle neighborhood when the suspect approached a motorist at an intersection and shot her before walking into the street and firing on the bus, police said in a statement.The bus driver was struck but managed to turn the bus around and head away from the assailant, police said. The suspect then approached a second motorist in a Toyota Prius and opened fire, killing the driver.The gunman climbed into the Prius as police arrived and sped away but collided with a nearby vehicle, killing that driver. Officers pursuing the suspect took him into custody following a brief standoff, police said.Authorities did not immediately offer an explanation for what might have precipitated the shooting or specify the type of weapon used.The unidentified suspect was taken to a Seattle hospital, where he remained under guard while being treated for injuries that were not life-threatening, according to police. Police said one motorist was killed by gunfire and the other motorist was killed in the collision. Both were men, as was the wounded bus driver. None of the victims was immediately identified.King County's Metro transit authority said on Twitter the bus driver had activated an emergency alarm to report being hit by gunfire, and that none of his 12 passengers was injured.Although wounded in the torso, the bus driver was able to walk to a gurney to be transported by paramedics to a hospital, the Seattle Times newspaper quoted a transit union president as saying.AdvertisementSupported byBy ReutersSYDNEY — From its clubhouses in Melbourne and Sydney, the Lads Society promotes drug-free living and exercise, as well as "white resistance" and Islamophobia, according to online statements and interviews with two of its leaders.One of Australia's most high profile extremist groups, its members last year infiltrated the youth arm of the National Party, part of the ruling coalition government, before being exposed and ejected due to their far right views.Now, the group has come to prominence again – and to the attention of security agencies – after a gunman shot 50 people dead at two New Zealand mosques.In the hours after the shootings, the Lads Society's private Facebook page lit up as its members discussed the attack and the man arrested and charged with murder, 28-year-old Australian Brenton Tarrant, according to five screenshots of the Facebook messages which were provided by a person with access to the group and reviewed by Reuters."He had been on the scene for a while," said Tom Sewell, founder of the Lads Society, according to the previously undisclosed messages on the Lads Society's Facebook page. "He made heaps on Bitcoin and paid for his own holidays, I spoke to him back in 2017 when he was donating money to everyone," added Sewell. In a later public statement, Sewell said he and Lads Society leaders were interviewed about the Christchurch attacks by the Australia Security Intelligence Organisation (ASIO), the country's domestic spy agency. ASIO said it does not comment on specific individuals, intelligence or operational matters but was alert to the threat from people with "extreme right-wing ideologies". The Australian Federal Police also declined to comment when asked about any ties Tarrant had to the Lads Society.Sewell declined to comment on Tarrant or whether he knew him, and his messages provided no further details.Tarrant, who is now in custody and has said he plans to represent himself, was not available for comment. The Lads Society's page was shut down after Facebook targeted white nationalists in the wake of the Christchurch massacre. Reuters was unable to verify the claims on the since-deleted Facebook page.     However, Sewell's messages to the private group on the Lads Society Facebook page, which carried the same profile photo as a photo posted on Sewell's Instagram account, add to evidence Tarrant was engaged with Australia's far right. On the 8Chan message board minutes before the attack, Tarrant posted links to a livestream video of the attack and said: "You are all top blokes and the best bunch of cobbers a man could ask for." Cobber is Australian slang for friend, and a term popular among Australian white nationalists.As Australia confronts the uncomfortable truth that Tarrant was one of its own, the country has been gripped by acrimonious debate about both its past race policies and whether recent political discourse about immigration and Islam had any role to play in his radicalization.In the space of a few minutes outside a Sydney mosque the day after the Christchurch shootings, Australian Prime Minister Scott Morrison encapsulated the country's contradictory identity."We are a tolerant, multicultural society, the most successful immigration country on the planet," he said, before pivoting to a darker undercurrent. "These white supremacist, white separatist views, are not new. I mean, these sentiments have sadly existed in Australia for hundreds of years."OFF THE RADARTarrant grew up in the small Australian city of Grafton, where he worked as a gym instructor and developed a passion for gaming and computers, according to local media reports citing the gym owner and his grandmother. In a "manifesto" distributed online just before the attack, Tarrant said he formed his racist beliefs on the internet and downplayed his links to Australia, saying he was radicalized abroad. He acted alone, the manifesto said, although he said he had donated to far-right groups from an inheritance and a cryptocurrency windfall. Austrian Chancellor Sebastian Kurz last week confirmed his country's far-right Identitarian Movement had received 1,500 euros ($1,690) from Tarrant.Most of his past nine years was spent traveling across Europe, Asia and the Middle East.Tarrant was "on nobody's radar, anywhere," said Morrison, spending only 45 days in the past three years in Australia. According to the Australian Broadcasting Corporation, citing archives of the deleted Facebook account of the United Patriots Front (UPF), another Australian far-right group, Tarrant described one of that group's leaders, Blair Cottrell, as "Emperor". Reuters was unable to independently verify that detail.Cottrell - a muscle-bound, blond-haired carpenter - founded the UPF alongside Sewell. Sewell later started Lads Society in 2017, with Cottrell's promotional support. Cottrell, described by sources as the movement's main figurehead in Australia, still heads UPF and appears in Lads Society photos and videos but holds no formal position in that group. Cottrell told Reuters that, as best he could tell, Tarrant had donated only once to groups he was associated with - A$50 to the UPF. "I don't believe I influenced Tarrant much at all. Maybe three years ago, he was in support of our specific opposition to that mosque development in Bendigo."In 2017, Cottrell and two other UPF members were found guilty of inciting contempt of Muslims after they filmed a mock beheading outside council offices to protest a mosque development in the small Victorian city.GOING MAINSTREAMWhite extremists gained momentum in 2014 after an Islamist gunman took a group of hostages in a Sydney cafe, analysts and members of the movement say. The following year, thousands of people attended rallies arranged by anti-Islam group Reclaim Australia, and some far-right politicians spoke at the events.Suspicions about the presence of Lads Society members in the youth wing of the National Party first emerged after officials of the rural-based party noted an influx of new members from cities. After ties to the Lads Society were revealed in local media, the National Party expelled 19 people, saying in a statement in November it "would not rest until every last one of these extremists have been identified and removed." In Australia's latest census, about 90 percent nominated their ancestry as Australian or European, while 2.5 percent were recorded as Muslims.Just under a quarter of Australians have a "negative attitude" to Muslims, according to a 2018 report from the Scanlon Foundation, a group that tracks social cohesion.FAR-RIGHT SENATORIn the wake of the Christchurch attacks, Australia's Islamophobes flooded social media with memes and messages in support of Fraser Anning, the Australian senator who blamed the bloodshed on "an immigration program which allowed Muslim fanatics to migrate to New Zealand".In an interview with Reuters, Anning said he was "completely opposed" to the attacks in Christchurch.However, he echoed the "replacement theory" embraced by Tarrant and the global white supremacist movement. Muslims, he said, "are going to outbreed us very quickly".Anning has picked up 28,600 Facebook followers in the past four weeks, data provided by his office shows, and now has more than 122,000 followers. Sewell and Cottrell in statements and interviews with Reuters and other media, also said they were appalled by the attacks on the mosques. "Politically motivated violence is not in the interest of our organization or our community," Sewell said in his since-deleted Facebook statement on March 20.In his interview with Reuters, Sewell said further that Tarrant's violence had caused governments to become "extremely reactionary", passing legislation "without thinking it through".New Zealand moved swiftly to ban the kinds of semi-automatic weapons used in the attacks. AdvertisementSupported byBy Ali Winston[What you need to know to start the day: Get New York Today in your inbox.]A 15-year-old boy from Haiti was shot and killed in front of his sister by a hooded gunman on Friday night in a horrific scene that rocked his Brooklyn neighborhood and served as a grim reminder of a growing number of murders in New York.The boy, Samuel Joseph, was a sophomore at the High School for Youth and Community Development on the Erasmus Hall campus and one of eight siblings from a family of Haitian immigrants. He was leaving his apartment building on Flatbush Avenue in the Flatbush neighborhood to get something to eat around 5:45 p.m. when he was confronted in the lobby by the gunman.He was shot in the face, head and chest, and died at a nearby hospital, the police said.His murder was the latest in an increasingly violent year in New York City, and Brooklyn in particular. As of Feb. 17, there had been 48 murders in the city this year, up from 31 during the same period in 2018.That increase has been driven mostly by killings in Brooklyn, where there have been at least 15 more murders compared with this point last year.Surveillance video recovered by the police from nearby businesses showed two young men stopping and speaking to one of Samuel’s sisters in front of their building, Assemblywoman Rodneyse Bichotte, a Democrat whose district includes the neighborhood, said on Saturday.“His sister was walking down the street, and you can see these two men have a conversation with her and apparently asked where her brother was,” said Ms. Bichotte, who had spoken to one of Samuel’s sisters and watched the video. “One guy stood outside, and one came inside, did the shooting and left.”No arrests have been made and a motive for the shooting was not immediately clear.“This was planned, but I don’t know if it was the right target,” Ms. Bichotte said.The shooting happened on a busy Friday evening when the neighboring businesses — a barbershop, a tattoo parlor, a package shipping center — were open and full of customers.Fabian Mora, a tattoo artist who works two doors down from Samuel’s building, said that for the past few years Samuel came into his shop and watched people get tattooed. “He used to joke with us, and say, ‘I want to get a tattoo,’ and we would tell him he was too young,” Mr. Mora said.Frank Joseph, who played basketball with Samuel at the Y.M.C.A. gym just steps down the street, crouched in front of a sidewalk memorial of candles and a note-laden poster of his friend. He remembered him as a skilled point guard.“I knew him before he could even speak English,” said Mr. Joseph, who was not related to the victim. “He was a good kid.”A number of youth murders have stunned the city recently, notably the brutal stabbing of Lesandro Guzman-Feliz in the Bronx last summer and the shooting of Oluwadurotimi Joseph Oyebola on a Brownsville basketball court in September.Samuel’s family — he was one of five sons and three daughters — came to the United States about 10 years ago. Relatives were too distraught to speak to reporters on Saturday.“They came here for opportunity, and a young man was gunned down,” Ms. Bichotte, the assemblywoman, said. “You have a family that’s trying to capture the American dream, and then something like this happens.”AdvertisementSupported byBy Julie Bosman and Mitch SmithAURORA, Ill. — A former warehouse employee who had recently lost his job stormed through his old workplace in suburban Chicago on Friday, killing five workers and injuring five police officers.The gunman, whom the authorities identified as Gary Martin, 45, of Aurora, Ill., was killed in an exchange of gunfire with officers.His sister, Tameka Martin, said Mr. Martin had worked at the Henry Pratt Company’s industrial warehouse for about 20 years before he was let go two weeks ago. The police said they believed that Mr. Martin had lost his job even more recently, on Friday.A worker received non-life-threatening injuries in the shooting at the company’s warehouse, where valves and control devices used in water and power systems are designed.Scores of law enforcement authorities swarmed the facility in Aurora, about 40 miles west of downtown Chicago; sections of the city were cordoned off; and schools were forced to keep students inside for more than an hour.By late Friday, officials said they were notifying the families of those who had died, and would not yet release their names.Four hospitals reported treating at least seven people who were hurt. Among the wounded were five Aurora police officers who were shot and a sixth officer who was injured responding to the gunfire inside the warehouse. The officers’ injuries were not believed to be life threatening.The first calls of a shooting at the warehouse began pouring in at 1:24 p.m. local time, Kristen Ziman, Aurora’s police chief, said. The first officers arrived four minutes later, rushing in and immediately being shot at, she said. Two of the first four officers to arrive were shot.Chief Ziman said officers from other departments converged on the site, and teams were assembled to search for the gunman inside the sprawling, 29,000-square-foot building. When they eventually found him, about 90 minutes after the search began, they shot and killed him, she said. The police said he was armed with a handgun.John Probst, an employee who was in the building at the time, told ABC 7 Chicago that he recognized the gunman, a co-worker, “running down the aisle” with a pistol that had a green laser attached to it.He said he saw one person who was shot and “was bleeding pretty bad.” He believed there were others who had been shot in the office. He said he and another co-worker ran out the back door, and he heard more shots once he was outside.Officials from Mueller Water Products, of which the Henry Pratt Company is a subsidiary, issued a statement late Friday expressing shock and sadness.“Our hearts are with the victims and their loved ones, the first responders, the Aurora community and the entire Mueller family during this extremely difficult time,” the statement said. “Our entire focus is on the health and well-being of our colleagues, and we are committed to providing any and all support to them and their families.”The officials did not respond to specific questions, and employees reached by phone on Friday night said they had been told not to comment. The company, founded in 1901, has its headquarters in Aurora, according to its website, and also has manufacturing facilities in Washington State and Indiana.Ms. Martin said she had seen her brother a few days ago at a dinner at her mother’s house, and she described him as “very depressed, very depressed.” She added, “He really didn’t say too much to me.”Mr. Martin’s family members met with officers at the Police Department late Friday; some embraced and wept.The authorities conducted a search of Mr. Martin’s home on Friday night.For hours on Friday afternoon, a chaotic scene played out in Aurora, a city of 200,000 residents, as fire trucks, ambulances and police squad cars jammed the neighborhood of houses and warehouses.Worried parents waited as schools — including one not far from the warehouse — ordered students to shelter in place for more than an hour. Officers searched the blocks around the warehouse. Rescue officials stood by waiting to carry more patients to hospitals. And officials from the coroner’s office were called.“It’s a shame that mass shootings such as this have become commonplace in our country,” Mayor Richard C. Irvin of Aurora said. “It’s a shame that a cold and heartless offender would be so selfish as to think he has a right to take an innocent life.”By evening, political leaders from around the nation began issuing news releases and posting messages on social media offering sympathy and support.The White House said that President Trump had been briefed on the situation and was monitoring it. J. B. Pritzker, the new governor of Illinois, traveled to Aurora and praised the police officers who ran inside during the shooting.“You rushed toward danger, and in doing that you saved countless lives,” Mr. Pritzker said.Rosalee Andrada, 54, lives in a house on Cleveland Avenue, only steps from the building where the shooting took place. She had just taken her daily medication when she heard sharp staccato sounds coming from outside.“I thought it was just ice cracking,” she said.But her husband, Jose, hustled her and their husky, Rocky, into the basement. She said she heard five shots in total.Rocky was anxious and wanted to come upstairs, Ms. Andrada said, so they climbed the basement steps and looked through the kitchen window. Countless police officers had converged on the scene, a cacophony of lights and sirens.She saw three officers helping a wounded colleague, who held his hand to his neck.AdvertisementSupported byBy Serge F. KovaleskiWhen the gunman in the Las Vegas mass shooting died, he left behind a hoard of guns and firearm accessories in his two Nevada homes and the hotel suite he used as a perch for his attack.All told, the gunman, Stephen Paddock, owned 50 guns, from pistols to high-powered long arms, and almost 40 firearm components including scopes, a red dot sight, bi-pods and rifle cases. A special administrator appointed by a state court judge to determine the value of Mr. Paddock’s estate said in a recent report that the guns and equipment were worth about $62,340.Now, the main lawyer involved in passing on Mr. Paddock’s nearly $1.4 million estate to the families of the 58 people he slaughtered at an outdoor country music festival is facing a quandary. Should the firearms be sold to raise as much money as possible for the bereaved, or would it be more appropriate to destroy the guns in an emblematic rejection of the kind of violence that Mr. Paddock carried out?“The money that would come from selling the guns is not a huge amount, but it would help to make a difference in peoples’ lives,” said Alice Denton, the lawyer for the special administrator in the estate case.On the other hand, Ms. Denton added, “Destroying the guns would send more of a symbolic message to the world that weapons like these should not be sold at any price if death or harm to innocent people cannot be prevented.”She said the estate would solicit feedback from the families of those killed and review applicable laws before a decision would be made on how to proceed. In the meantime, the guns and accessories are in the possession of the F.B.I.In an email message, a spokeswoman for the bureau’s Las Vegas field office, Sandra Breault, declined to comment on whether the F.B.I. would return some or all of the weapons to the estate. “This part of the investigation is still ongoing,” she wrote.Mr. Paddock died without a will. Lawyers for the victims encouraged Mr. Paddock’s mother — who, under Nevada law, became the heir by default — to give his assets to the estates of the 58 people killed by her son. The mother, Irene Hudson, transferred her right to inherit the estate in March of last year.In addition to those killed, hundreds of others were injured in the shooting. However, lawyers say the compensation should go to the loved ones of the dead rather than the injured, saying the money would have greater impact on their lives than if the large number of people hurt in the rampage were also beneficiaries.The conundrum over what to do with Mr. Paddock’s firearms underscores the increasingly complex and delicate considerations that have arisen for victims and their relatives as mass shootings have become a more frequent part of American life today.The case also comes as an unparalleled number of gun control laws were passed in states around the country in the 15 months since the Las Vegas shooting on Oct. 1, 2017.Mynda Smith, 43, whose older sister was fatally shot by Mr. Paddock, said she saw no point in destroying the guns he owned.“My initial reaction is that destroying them is not going to change anything and it won’t bring any goodness,” Ms. Smith said. “But if some good can come out of selling them, I am for it.”For Kyle Taylor, 32, whose father died in the massacre, deciding on the best use of Mr. Paddock’s weapons was “a moral dilemma.”“The more money you could raise to help the families is great,” Mr. Taylor said. “But the idea of receiving money from equipment that was used by someone who took so many lives is creepy and unsettling.”In the special administrator’s inventory of the estate, 23 rifles and a revolver were listed as having been found in Mr. Paddock’s room at the Mandalay Bay Resort and Casino. They were given a total value of $41,050.At Mr. Paddock’s home in Mesquite, Nev., $18,439 worth of guns and accessories — seven rifles, seven shotguns and five handguns — were found. And two shotguns and five handguns, with a combined value of just over $2,800, were collected from his Reno house, the inventory report showed.Overall, each of the 58 families would receive about $24,000 once Mr. Paddock’s estate is divided up equally. Included in that figure would be a payout of close to $1,100 per family if the firearms were to be sold.The cache of guns that belonged to Mr. Paddock — who attained significant wealth through high-stakes gambling and modest real estate deals before he lost much of it — is just one piece of his estate. It also includes a pair of houses, both in scenic retirement communities, an investment property and bank accounts.Among the other items in the estate are two gaming vouchers, totaling more than $30,000, from the Mandalay Bay. It was from an upper floor room in the hotel that Mr. Paddock started firing at concertgoers on the Vegas Strip, in what was the worst mass shooting in modern American history. He then took his own life.The inventory of Mr. Paddock’s estate also showed that he had $455,758 in 13 bank and brokerage accounts.The situation with the Paddock weapons is not unprecedented. When the federal government sought to hold an internet auction of personal items belonging to Theodore J. Kaczynski, who was sentenced to life in prison for the Unabomber crimes, several victims pursuing restitution from him were initially reluctant to agree to such a sale.Although the money from the sale of Mr. Kaczynski’s writings, sunglasses, clothing and other possessions would go to them, the victims feared that the auction would bring Mr. Kaczynski more publicity and further expose their suffering. One victim who was not seeking restitution said he hoped that Mr. Kaczynski’s property would be destroyed or sealed for at least a century and then made available to “scholars of depravity.”The auction went ahead in 2011 and raised more than $232,000 for the victims. Mr. Kaczynski carried out 16 mail bombings from 1978 to 1995 that killed three people and injured 28.Though the matter of how best to handle Mr. Paddock’s guns remains unresolved, the estate has made progress in other areas. On Thursday, the judge overseeing the estate case approved the sale of Mr. Paddock’s Mesquite home to an Oregon couple for $425,000.His residence in Reno is still on the market for $374,900, a reduction from the original listing price of $399,000 in July.Bernadette Jones, who, with her husband, Daniel, bought the Mesquite home, said in an interview that the property met their criteria and that they were not spooked by the fact that it had belonged to one of America’s most notorious mass murderers, who stored many of his guns there.“There is room to build a pool, it is a nice clean house that has hardly been lived in and there are nice neighbors who have been through a lot,” Ms. Jones said.She added: “We feel that our discernment is very good, and if we felt that things were not right, we would have walked away. If he had any personal items in there, buying would have been out of the question.”The Joneses, who are in their 60s, had been looking to relocate to the area since the summer of 2017 to escape the dreary weather of Albany, Ore.Ms. Denton, the lawyer, said that the 58 families would not see any money raised by the estate for at least another year to give creditors time to file any claims.Although lawyers for many of the surviving victims have said their clients will not sue the estate, in order to preserve it, Ms. Denton pointed out that “the agreements are not in writing and they can change their minds at any time.”AdvertisementSupported byBy Liam StackA Baptist minister in Texas who came to national attention in 2016 when he praised the gunman who killed 49 people at a gay nightclub in Orlando, Fla., resigned from his ministry last week after allegedly using drugs, gambling and paying for sex with prostitutes.Donnie Romero, who founded the Stedfast Baptist Church in Fort Worth in 2014, told congregants at a church meeting on Jan. 2 that he had not “been ruling my house well.”“I have been a terrible husband and father,” Mr. Romero said, according to video of the meeting that was posted to the church’s official YouTube channel. “This is the best decision — for my family and this church — to make.”Mr. Romero did not elaborate on his alleged impropriety at that meeting, which was largely run by another pastor, Steven L. Anderson. Mr. Anderson told congregants that “the lord says” Mr. Romero was “disqualified” to lead them.Later, in a video he posted to YouTube, Mr. Anderson expanded on what he called the pastor’s “major sins.”“Basically, the major sin involved was being with prostitutes, and then there were also marijuana and gambling that were also discovered,” Mr. Anderson said.He added that no one else at the church had been “tainted with any of this or were involved with any of this.”Mr. Anderson did not specify the gender of the prostitutes or provide a timeline for the infractions. Neither Mr. Anderson, Mr. Romero nor the new pastor of Stedfast Baptist Church, Jonathan Shelley, responded to messages seeking comment on Tuesday.Stedfast Baptist Church is part of a nationwide network of almost 30 independent Baptist churches associated with Mr. Anderson, who founded Faithful Word Baptist Church in Tempe, Ariz.He gained notoriety in 2009 for saying in a sermon that he had prayed for the death of President Barack Obama, and was criticized by the Anti-Defamation League in 2014 for what it called his “history of anti-Semitism.”Both churches are vehemently opposed to homosexuality and have been classified as hate groups by the Southern Poverty Law Center, which tracks extremism in the United States. The website of Faithful Word Baptist Church describes homosexuality as “a sin and an abomination which God punishes with the death penalty.”“This network is not coming out of nowhere, it’s not like it’s one little church in one little place with some guy who liked to go to prostitutes,” said Heidi Beirich, a researcher at the law center. “It’s a network of congregations across the country with this guy who preaches a — I don’t want to call it a theology because it is so hateful, but who preaches that gay people are destroying the country.”Mr. Romero and Mr. Anderson were among a small group of extreme Christian conservatives who were widely criticized in 2016 for praising Omar Mateen, the gunman who killed 49 people that year at Pulse nightclub, a center of gay night life in Orlando. Mr. Mateen said at the time that he was acting in the name of the Islamic State.More than 50 additional people were injured in the attack. In a sermon shortly after the shooting, Mr. Romero said he hoped they would die, too.In the sermon, which was posted to YouTube, Mr. Romero told congregants that gay people were all pedophiles and that he hoped the injured would die of their wounds “so that they don’t get any more opportunity to go out and hurt little children.”“I’ll pray to God that God will finish the job that that man started,” he said, referring to Mr. Mateen. The video of the sermon has since been removed from YouTube.AdvertisementSupported byBy Emily S. RuebAbout three months before Scott P. Beierle shot two women to death, injured five other people and killed himself at Hot Yoga Tallahassee in November 2018, the F.B.I. received a tip about him, the Tallahassee Police Department said Tuesday.In August 2018, Mr. Beierle shared a link to his website “Path of Defiance” with a childhood friend and his wife, who was so disturbed by the content — it included songs about the rape and torture of women — that she shared it with the Federal Bureau of Investigation. But according to police records, the bureau did not have enough information to pursue the lead.The F.B.I. did not immediately respond to a request for comment.The revelation that the bureau had been alerted to Mr. Beierle was among new details released by the Tallahassee Police Department at a news conference on Tuesday afternoon announcing the findings of a three-month investigation. It found that Mr. Beierle had planned the attack for months and had an affinity for pornographic yoga and a documented disdain for the opposite sex.Speaking at a news conference on Tuesday afternoon, Chief Michael DeLeo said that while Mr. Beierle had no known connection to any the seven victims (six were female), he was “a disturbed individual who harbored hatred towards women.”One of the documents recovered from a hotel room where Mr. Beierle had been staying said: “If I can’t find one decent female to live with, I will find many indecent females to die with. If they are intent on denying me life, I will have no choice, but to deny them life. At least I will no longer have to live under the reign of a monkey. America deserves a thousand 9/11s for this outrage.”Mr. Beierle, a 40-year-old alumnus of Florida State University, had a history of sexual misconduct against women going back to grade school through his military career, and an equally long trail of misogynistic and racist content posted on the web, including songs he wrote and recorded about his frustrations and failures in life, love and work, according to the investigation.The department interviewed dozens of people and combed through thousands of pages of documents, including journal entries and medical records.In a video titled “Plight of the Adolescent Male,” which Mr. Beierle posted online four years before the attack, he invoked Elliot O. Rodger, the 22-year-old gunman who documented his rage against women for rejecting him before he killed six people, injured 14 others and took his own life in a 2014 rampage in Isla Vista, Calif. Both men identified as involuntary celibates.The last song Mr. Beierle posted to his SoundCloud account included threatening lyrics to “put someone in a neck brace.”Although Mr. Beierle had searched online for pornographic yoga content as well as locations and schedules of yoga studios in Tallahassee, the department concluded that there was no evidence he had specifically targeted any individual.But Mr. DeLeo said it was likely that Mr. Beierle targeted a “familiar community” in Tallahassee, where records show he had been arrested at least twice, including separate cases in 2012 and 2016 in which he was accused of groping a woman. Both of those cases were dismissed.The department also obtained communications from 2013 between Mr. Beierle and a woman named Jennifer whom he had met online and who mentioned that she had attended a hot yoga class in Tallahassee. The relationship soured after Mr. Beierle sent her sexually suggestive messages, according to the police.Chief DeLeo said Mr. Beierle suffered severe financial stress because he had been fired at least twice from substitute teaching jobs and sought mental health counseling on a number of occasions. Chief DeLeo said that records could not be released because of privacy laws.Days before the shooting, Mr. Beierle purchased a yoga mat and ear plugs at a Walmart and checked into a hotel, according to the police. He canceled his psychiatry appointments with the United States Department of Veterans Affairs.On Nov. 2, the day of the shooting, Mr. Beierle left two hotel keys in his room, a sign that he was not planning to return, Chief DeLeo said.Then Mr. Beirele went to Hot Yoga Tallahassee, arriving at 5:29 p.m.Minutes later, Mr. Beierle shot Dr. Nancy Van Vessem, 61, a faculty member at Florida State, and Maura Binkley, 21, a student there, killing them both. Five other people were injured.When Mr. Beierle’s Glock handgun jammed, one person hit him with a vacuum cleaner, the police said. Another pretended to play dead and later escaped.Mr. Beirele shot himself in the head and was found dead in the middle of the yoga studio. He had almost 100 rounds of ammunition with him, Chief DeLeo said.“I know it sounds difficult to say,” he added, “but this could have been even worse than what it was.”Because of an editing error, an earlier version of this article misstated the number of victims. There were seven, not six.AdvertisementSupported byBy Matthew HaagStephen Paddock, the gunman who killed 58 people in a barrage of gunfire from his perch in a Las Vegas hotel suite, had sought infamy and most likely chose his target, an outdoor music festival, because of the image of harming people who were having fun, according to an F.B.I. report released on Tuesday.But after a lengthy investigation, a team of investigators and behavioral analysts could not determine a “single or clear motivating factor” behind Mr. Paddock’s October 2017 attack, the report concluded. In the years before the mass shooting, Mr. Paddock had complained about his declining physical and mental health, which led him to meticulously plan the attack with the explicit intention of committing suicide in the end, the F.B.I. found.“His inability or unwillingness to perceive any alternatives to this ending influenced his decision to attack,” stated the report, which lists 10 findings over three pages. “The planning and preparation — in and of itself — was likely satisfying to Paddock as it provided a sense of direction and control despite his mental and physical decline.”Yet Mr. Paddock left no suicide note, manifesto or communication about the attack or his thinking, investigators said. The F.B.I. report underscored the lingering mystery of the rampage, echoing the frustrations expressed by investigators just days after the attack — that Mr. Paddock had carefully covered his tracks, had not told anyone about his plans and had no obvious motivations.“The L.V.R.P.’s Key Findings illustrate that Paddock was, in many ways, similar to other active shooters the F.B.I. has studied,” the report said, referring to the Las Vegas Review Panel, a group of investigators, psychologists and other experts who analyzed evidence over a year.The report portrays Mr. Paddock as heavily influenced by his father, a notorious bank robber in the 1960s and ’70s who landed on the F.B.I.’s most wanted list, and as being devoid of empathy for others. According to the report, he viewed people much the same way he approached gambling: A life, like every bet, was transactional.That mind-set led him to target the Route 91 Harvest Festival, the country music show below his suite on the 32nd floor of the Mandalay Bay Resort and Casino.“He had a history of exploiting others through manipulation and duplicity, sometimes resulting in a cruel deprivation of their expectations without warning,” the F.B.I. said in the report.AdvertisementSupported byBy Serge F. KovaleskiA San Francisco software executive has donated more than $62,000 to try to ensure that the cache of firearms that was owned by the gunman in the Las Vegas massacre will be destroyed.In the aftermath of the 2017 shooting, loved ones of the 58 people who lost their lives in the rampage faced a difficult choice over what to do with the 50 guns and accessories that were owned by the gunman, Stephen Paddock. They could possibly sell the weapons to raise money or have the guns destroyed in a symbolic renunciation of violence.Now the families don’t have to worry about making that decision — the donor, who wishes to remain anonymous, has stepped in to cover the funds. His only condition is that the guns are destroyed.The collection of firearms and equipment was valued at $62,340 in a recent inventory of Mr. Paddock’s nearly $1.4 million estate by a court-appointed special administrator. As Mr. Paddock died without a will, his mother, under Nevada law, became the heir to his assets, which she agreed to give to the families of the dead victims last March.After reading a New York Times article about the families’ gun dilemma that was published earlier this month, the California businessman decided to write a check to the families for $62,500. He contacted a reporter at The Times so that he could get in touch with the lawyer for the special administrator of the estate.“It was tugging at my heart strings and it seemed like a horrific situation for the families to deal with this choice,” he said in an interview. “I wanted to alleviate some of the pain or at least not allow it to get worse.”The executive said that he wants the donation to be anonymous because the focus should be on the families.“No credit in the face of pain,” he said. “This was about heartbreak and wanting to help.”He said he made the donation conditional on the destruction of the firearms — which range from pistols to high-powered long arms — to ensure they do not end up back in circulation.“I think the families would feel better if the weapons are gone,” he said.Alice Denton, the lawyer for the special administrator of the estate, said the F.B.I., which is in possession of the firearms, had given a verbal commitment that it would destroy the weapons if it received a court order to do so. She said that she would seek such an order next month from the Las Vegas judge overseeing the estate case. In the meantime, no action to destroy the guns would be taken.A spokeswoman for the F.B.I.’s Las Vegas field office said the bureau was unable to comment.The executive — who said he favors stronger gun control but does not consider himself “an anti-gun activist” — said if it turns out that the F.B.I. will not destroy the firearms, he would try to find another way to have it done.Ms. Denton said that she received the check last week and was delighted about the donor’s generosity.“We are so grateful,” she said. “It shows the compassion that total strangers can have for victims of horrendous crimes, and that, in the face of such evil, there are good people.”Mynda Smith, whose sister was killed in the attack, said the donor’s gesture and his desire to see the guns destroyed would help relatives like her deal with their sorrow.“His desire to alleviate any more emotional pain for the families of the 58, and all survivors really, is what makes it a beautiful thing,” Ms. Smith said. “Closing this door in this way is the perfect gift for us.”Ms. Denton said the check has been deposited in her trust account and that it would be transferred to the estate once the guns are destroyed.Nearly half of the guns in question — 23 rifles and a revolver — were found in the gunman’s upper-floor room at the Mandalay Bay Resort and Casino, according to the estate inventory.It was from that perch at the hotel that he opened fire on an outdoor country music festival. Not only were dozens of people slaughtered, hundreds of others were injured in the worst mass shooting in modern American history.The rest of the gunman’s firearms were in his two Nevada homes. At his house in Mesquite, seven rifles, seven shotguns and five handguns were collected. The estate recently sold that property to an Oregon couple for $425,000.And two shotguns and five handguns were found at the gunman’s Reno home, which is still listed on the market for $374,900.Lawyers for some of the victims have said that distributing the money to only the loved ones of the dead meant that it could have a far greater impact on their lives than if the large number of people hurt in the attack were also beneficiaries.If the gunman’s estate were to be divided up equally, each of the 58 families would receive about $24,000 — with the firearms accounting for close to $1,100 per family. The estate also includes an investment property worth a little more than $90,000 and bank and brokerage accounts totaling $455,758.One family, who intends to sue the manufacturers of the guns used in the shooting, would like to see those weapons kept in tact rather than destroyed.Through a lawyer, the family of Carrie Parsons, who was killed in the attack, has reached out to Ms. Denton.“What we are saying is ‘Please don’t destroy these, they are evidence,” said one of the family’s lawyers, Rick Friedman, who added that he had not yet been able to identify those firearms.“Destroying guns he did not use, I have no problem with,” Mr. Friedman said.AdvertisementSupported byBy The Associated PressPORT-AU-PRINCE, Haiti — Gunmen attacked a motorcade carrying Chile's ambassador to Haiti on Wednesday, wounding his driver and another person and leaving three missing, officials said. The ambassador was not harmed.The Santiago, Chile-based charity America Solidaria said in a written statement Wednesday that gunmen opened fire as Ambassador Patricio Utreras and his wife were driving to a clean-water project in the Haitian capital's Croix-des-Bouquets area with Haitian infrastructure officials and 13 of the charity's volunteers from Colombia, Chile, Mexico and Haiti.Chile's Ministry of Foreign Affairs said four members of the Chilean Investigative Police, the country's equivalent of the FBI, repelled the attack and quickly pulled the ambassador and his wife, who was also in the convoy, from the area.The ambassador's driver was hit by a bullet in the wrist and an America Solidaria official was also lightly wounded. The local mayor said the ambassador's car was hit by many bullets.America Solidaria said Frantz Eliantzin, a Haitian driver for the charity; Abner Cejuste, an official with Haiti's water authority; and Andy Blaise, an engineer with Proyecto Universal, a Chile-based aid group; were all missing after the attack. No details were provided.America Solidaria said the attack occurred during a visit to Project Wash, a project providing clean water and sanitation to Boutin, an extremely poor section of Croix-des-Bouquets, an area populated by tens of thousands of people displaced by Haiti's 2010 earthquake._____AdvertisementSupported byBy ReutersLOS ANGELES — A former California nursing student who killed seven people in a 2012 shooting rampage at a Christian college in the Bay Area city of Oakland, California, has died behind bars, state prison officials said on Wednesday.One Goh, 50, died on March 20 at the California State Prison, Sacramento, Vicky Waters of the California Department of Corrections and Rehabilitation told Reuters in an email. Waters said medical examiners with the Sacramento County Coroner's office would determine the cause of death. She did not provide any further information. In May 2017 Goh pleaded no contest to murder charges stemming from the massacre at Oikos University in Oakland. He was sentenced in July of that year to life in prison without the possibility of parole. Prosecutors say Goh, who dropped out of the university in 2011, was angry at administrators at the school when he opened fire there on April 2, 2012, killing seven people.Goh was initially found mentally incompetent to stand trial after doctors determined that he suffered from paranoid schizophrenia. AdvertisementSupported byBy Sarah MervoshA 7-year-old who was riding in a car with her mother and three sisters was killed in Texas over the weekend, the authorities said, when a gunman in a pickup truck suddenly pulled up alongside them and opened fire.The authorities, who said the shooting appeared random and unprovoked, were searching Monday for her killer.The 7-year-old, Jazmine Barnes, was a second grader at a Houston-area elementary school, and her death — in the family’s car, early one morning over the holidays — unnerved and perplexed her community.“It’s New Year’s Eve,” Sheriff Ed Gonzalez of Harris County said in an interview on Monday. “It should be a time of fellowship and celebration for many — but not for this family. They have to bury a child.”Jazmine was riding with her mother and sisters, a 6-year-old and two teenagers, near Houston when they were attacked in a “random and senseless” shooting about 7 a.m. Sunday, Sheriff Gonzalez said.Jazmine’s mother, LaPorsha Washington, 30, told ABC13 that she and her family had been on a trip to get coffee when a man in a truck opened fire.“The truck slowed down and continued to fire as he was in front of us,” Ms. Washington, who was injured in the shooting, told the television station from a hospital bed. “It was not fair. It was not fair. He intentionally killed my child for no reason. He didn’t even know her.”After the shooting, she said, one of her other daughters realized that Jazmine had been struck.“She said: ‘Momma, Jazmine’s not moving. She’s not talking,’” Ms. Washington recalled. “I turned around and my 7-year-old was shot in the head.”Jazmine was pronounced dead at the scene, the sheriff said. Ms. Washington was shot in the arm and her 6-year-old daughter suffered injuries from broken glass, the authorities said.The authorities described the gunman as a white man in his 40s with a beard, wearing a red, hooded sweatshirt and driving a red pickup truck.The image of a white man suddenly firing on a black family raised questions about whether the shooting had been racially motivated. Sheriff Gonzalez said the authorities had not established a motive and could not discount the possibility of a hate crime.“We’re not ruling anything out and we’re not going to speculate,” he said.His office has released a grainy image of a red pickup truck and is asking for the public’s help to find the gunman.At a news conference on Monday, Jazmine’s father, Chris Cevilla, said Jazmine had been doing well in school and was a “sweet” and “innocent” young girl. He begged anyone with knowledge of what happened to “step up as if it were your own.”“I’m asking, from the bottom of my heart,” he said. “Whoever knows anything, please step up at this point in time and help me and my family get justice for my baby girl.”Follow Sarah Mervosh on Twitter: @smervoshAdvertisementSupported byBy Megan SpeciaOne was a dairy farmer. Another aspired to be a pilot. One was an elder known for helping newcomers. Another was a teenager who called his mother when the shooting started. The 50 people slaughtered by a gunman at two Christchurch mosques last week spanned a range of backgrounds. Here is what we know about them.Atta Elayyan, 33, was a technology entrepreneur, a goalkeeper and a new father. He played for New Zealand’s national futsal team, according to the New Zealand Football association, which confirmed his death. Futsal is a version of five-a-side soccer played indoors.“There are no words to sum up how we are all feeling,” one of his teammates, Josh Margetts, said in a statement. “There is a huge hole in our hearts as we come to terms with the loss of a great person and a good mate. He will be sorely missed.” Mr. Elayyan was born in Kuwait and studied computer science at the University of Canterbury. He was the chief executive and a co-founder of LWA Solutions, a mobile app start-up. He was well known in the futsal world and in Christchurch’s tech community. He and his wife, Farah, have a young daughter, Aya, whose photos appear in abundance on his Facebook page. In one, she is wearing a bib that says: “My dad rocks.”[We learned more about Mr. Elayyan from his family as they gathered to remember him and say goodbye.]Three-year-old Mucad Ibrahim is the youngest person confirmed to have been killed in the attacks. He was at Al Noor mosque and became separated from his brother and father when the shooting began.“He was a Muslim-born Kiwi who was full of energy, love and happiness,” his family said in a statement. “He is remembered in our community as a young boy who emanated nothing but the representation of God’s love, peace and mercy.”“Will miss you dearly brother,” Mucad’s brother Abdi Ibrahim wrote on Facebook. Mucad was wearing a white thobe and his favorite white hat on Friday, “and so returned to His Lord in a state of pure innocence and spiritual beauty,” the family’s statement said.The family said they had taken solace from a global outpouring of support. “Knowing that New Zealand and the whole world stands behind our boy reassures us that violence and racism are unwelcome in our world,” they said. “I’ve lost my little boy, he’s just turned 14,” Sayyad Milne’s father, John Milne, told The New Zealand Herald through tears.Sayyad was one of two Cashmere High School students killed in the attack, according to the school’s principal, Mark Wilson. The boy was an avid soccer player. “He proved himself to be not only a truly outstanding goalkeeper, but a great friend and colleague, a real team player with a fabulous attitude and a warm and friendly personality,” St. Albans Shirley Football Club said in a statement on Facebook. “Sayyad was one of our own and we will always remember him.”Lilik Abdul Hamid, 57, originally from Indonesia, had been an aircraft maintenance engineer with Air New Zealand for 16 years, the company’s chief executive, Christopher Luxon, said in a statement. “He first got to know the team even earlier when he worked with our aircraft engineers in a previous role overseas,” Mr. Luxon said. “The friendships he made at that time led him to apply for a role in Air New Zealand and make the move to Christchurch.” Mr. Hamid is survived by his wife and two children, Mr. Luxon said. On Facebook, one of Mr. Hamid’s friends called him “a man with a gold heart who always opened his heart and home to everyone.” Areeb Ahmed, 27, was an employee of PricewaterhouseCoopers, a statement released by the company said. Pakistan’s foreign ministry said he was originally from that country’s largest city, Karachi. “Areeb was a loved and respected member of our PwC family,” the company wrote on Facebook. “His smile, warmth, dedication, respect and humor will be deeply missed.”New Zealand Football confirmed the death of Tariq Omar, 24, a soccer player who coached for several of Christchurch United Football Club’s junior teams. Colin Williamson, the club’s academy director, called him “a beautiful human being with a tremendous heart and love for coaching.”“Our coaches and his players are struggling to understand what has happened and we are trying to support our club members as best as we can,” Mr. Williamson said in a statement released by the club. “But of course our main thoughts and concerns go out to Tariq’s family who are in our hearts and prayers.”Shahid Suhail, 35, from Pakistan, was an engineer who worked for a resin manufacturer in Christchurch, according to Stuff, a news website. He had a wife and two young daughters. “His daughters were his life,” said his wife, Asma.Syed Jahandad Ali, 34, originally from Lahore, Pakistan, worked at Intergen, a software company and had a wife and three children, according to a fundraising page created by the company. In a statement, the company called him “a kind and gentle man.”“Syed Jahandad Ali has deeply touched the lives of his friends, colleagues and wider technology community through his knowledge and skills. We are devastated to have lost a very loved Intergenite” the statement read.Haroon Mahmood, 40, had worked in banking in Pakistan before moving to New Zealand, Stuff reported. He taught at a private school for international students and had been a tutor at Lincoln University in Christchurch, according to Radio New Zealand. He had a wife and two children. Farhaj Ahsan, 30, originally from Hyderabad, India, had lived for 10 years in New Zealand, where he worked as an electrical engineer. He left a wife and two children, according to his brother, Kashif Ahsan, who spoke to the BBC. Maheboob Khokhar, a 65-year-old Indian engineer, was on his first trip to New Zealand, visiting his son, who had moved there from India eight years ago. His wife, Akhtar Khokhar, said they had been in the country for two months. He was at Al Noor mosque the day before they had planned to leave. Muhammad Haziq Mohd-Tarmizi, a Malaysian 17-year-old, was among those killed at Al Noor Mosque, the police said. His father was wounded in the attack, according to the Malaysian government. Asif Vora was among five Indian nationals whose deaths were confirmed by the Indian High Commission in New Zealand. Radio New Zealand said he was 58, and that he and his son had been killed at Al Noor mosque.Asif Vora’s son, Ramiz Vora, 28, had become a father just days before his death, according to Radio New Zealand. Ansi Alibava, 25, another of the Indian nationals among the victims, had moved to New Zealand with her husband, Abdul Nazer, in 2018, a year after they had married, he told CNN. She had just completed a master's degree in agribusiness management.Mr. Nazer was near an emergency door at Al Noor mosque when the shooting began and managed to escape. Outside, he saw Ms. Alibava lying facedown and ran to her, but was stopped by a police officer. “She had so many dreams,” he told CNN. Ozair Kadir, 25, dreamed of being a commercial pilot like his older brother. Originally from Hyderabad, India, he had moved to New Zealand in recent years and was set to make that a reality.Messages of grief and support for Mr. Kadir’s family poured in on the Facebook page of the International Aviation Academy of New Zealand, where he was in pilot training. Fellow students gathered on Monday to lay flowers at a makeshift memorial.“Ozair's presence will be sadly missed by all staff and students at the Academy,” the institute said in a statement. “Our love, thoughts and prayers are with his family who are now in New Zealand preparing to take Ozair home.”Haji Daoud al-Nabi, 71, arrived in New Zealand from Afghanistan about 30 years ago and was a central figure in Christchurch’s small Afghan community. He was a leader who welcomed everyone, his son Yama al-Nabi said. His son was running 10 minutes late for Friday Prayers, along with his 8-year-old daughter, when they came upon a police cordon. The younger Mr. Nabi’s hands trembled as he held up his mobile phone to show a picture of his father with his daughter in the mosque on a different day. “I thought I’d make it to the prayers. When I got there, the police were there. I was running and a guy said there was shooting in the mosque,” Yama al-Nabi said. He knew his father was inside, but news of his death only came hours later.Ali Elmadani, 65, immigrated to New Zealand from the United Arab Emirates with his family in 1998, his family confirmed to the Stuff news site. His daughter, Maha Elmadani, said her father had always told the family to be strong, so that was what she was trying to do.“He considered New Zealand home and never thought something like this would happen here,” she told Stuff.Husna Ahmad, 47, led a number of women and children to safety after the shooting at Al Noor mosque began, said Farid Ahmad, her husband. Mr. Ahmad, who is in a wheelchair, said she was killed when she returned to the mosque to check on him.“She was busy with saving lives, forgetting about herself,” said Mr. Ahmad, 59.Mr. Ahmad said he had forgiven the gunman and believed that good would eventually come from the killing. “This is what Islam taught me,” he said.“What he did was a wrong thing, but I would tell him that inside him, he has great potential to be a generous person, to be a kind person, to be a person who would save people, save humanity rather than destroying them,” Mr. Ahmad said. “I hope and I pray for him that he would be a great savior one day. I don’t have any grudge.”In the gunman’s self-made video of the killings he had posted to Facebook, a man can be seen trying to tackle him as he began firing in Al Noor mosque. That man was Naeem Rashid, according to witnesses.His family described him as an intelligent, ambitious and devout father of three. His eldest son, Talha Naeem, was also killed.Mr. Rashid was in his 40s, according to Stuff and Radio New Zealand. His brothers, interviewed in Pakistan, said he had left a senior position at Citibank in the city of Lahore in 2010 to pursue a doctorate in Christchurch and raise his children in a peaceful country. Starting over proved more difficult than he had expected.“Like everybody who leaves this country, he left Pakistan because of lack of opportunities here,” said Dr. Khurshid Alam, one of Mr. Rashid’s brothers. “He went there to do his Ph.D. Because of the financial situation, he couldn’t complete it, so he was teaching part-time.”He became much more devout during his time in New Zealand, according to his brothers. They said he talked about wanting to die a martyr, which he felt was the most honorable way for a Muslim to die. Talha Naeem, 21, had just graduated from college and entered the work force. He was the eldest of Naeem Rashid’s three children — the second is 18, the youngest is 5 — and his father was especially proud of him, according to his family.The family had planned to return to Pakistan in May to help Talha find a wife.Amjad Hamid, 57, was a cardiologist who had spent the last few years working with rural communities in the mountainous area of Taranaki, on New Zealand’s North Island, though he continued to live in Christchurch with his wife and family. At Hawera Hospital in Taranaki, he often brought colleagues fresh baklava from a Christchurch bakery. “He was well liked for his kindness, compassion and sense of humor,” the Taranaki District Health Board said in a statement. “He was a hard-working doctor, deeply committed to caring for his patients, and a thoughtful team member who was supportive of all staff.”Hi wife, Hanan al-Adem, told Radio New Zealand she still could not believe he was gone. “He was the perfect man, it’s a big loss,” she said. Kamel Darwish, 38, arrived early at his brother’s home in Christchurch on the eve of the attack. He had traveled from the countryside, where he worked at a dairy farm, because “he didn’t want to miss Friday prayers,” said his brother, Zuhair Darwish. New Zealand had been his home for just six months. He had moved from Jordan because his brother had convinced him there was no safer, better place to raise a family. His wife and children were set to arrive in a month.“He was caring, he was honest, he was a loving person,” his brother said.Linda Armstrong, 64, was a third-generation New Zealander who grew up in Auckland and converted to Islam in her 50s, her nephew Kyron Gosse said.“Linda had a huge heart and what little she had, she was more than happy to share with her family and Muslim community,” Mr. Gosse wrote in a tribute to his aunt on Facebook. “She would tell me stories about Ramadan when all the families would come together at the mosque sharing homemade meals and having a feast, laughing and chatting.”Lateef Alabi, a leader at the Linwood mosque, told The New York Times that Ms. Armstrong had been among the victims there. Her younger brother, Tony Gosse, remembered her as a peaceful woman with a “a stubborn ideology of this world.”“We didn't always see eye to eye but she lived a very humble lifestyle and was always unselfishly helping others. She volunteered at refugee centers and was an advocate for women's rights,” he said. “She always had an open ear and a shoulder to lean on.”Mohammed Imran Khan, 47, also known as Imran Bhai, was originally from India and was killed at the Linwood mosque, Stuff reported. He owned a restaurant, the Indian Grill, and two other Christchurch businesses. A post on the restaurant’s Facebook page the day after the attacks said it would be closed indefinitely.Mohamad Moosid Mohamedhosen, 54, a citizen of Mauritius, was killed at the Linwood mosque, the police said. Hamza Mustafa, 16, called his mother when the shooting began at Al Noor mosque, she told Stuff.“He said ‘Mum, there’s someone come into the mosque and he’s shooting us,’” Salwa Mustafa said. “I called ‘Hamza, Hamza,’ and I can hear his little voice and after that it was quiet.”Hamza Mustafa attended Cashmere High School, as did Sayyad Milne, another teenager killed in the attack. Khaled Mustafa, 44, Hamza Mustafa’s father, was also killed at Al Noor mosque. Radio New Zealand said the Mustafas were originally from war-ravaged Syria, and that they had moved to New Zealand from Jordan last year. Hamza’s 13-year-old brother Zaed was wounded.“Our lives have completely changed,” Ms. Mustafa told Stuff.Junaid Ismail, 36, was a Christchurch native who worked at the family business, a dairy, according to Radio New Zealand. He had a wife and three children. His twin brother, Zahid, survived the shooting.Abdelfattah Qasem, a 60-year-old Palestinian, worked in Kuwait for much of his life, Stuff reported. He moved to New Zealand with his family in the early 1990s, after the first Gulf War. A relative told Stuff that Mr. Qasem was “like an elder for the community,” known for helping newcomers to Christchurch. He had three daughters and was about to become a grandfather.Originally from Fiji, Ashraf Ali, 61, had lived in Christchurch for 17 years, Stuff reported. Ashraf Ali Razat, 58, was visiting New Zealand from Fiji when he was killed, according to Radio New Zealand. Mathullah Safi, 55, killed at Al Noor mosque, came to New Zealand from Afghanistan through India about nine years ago, Stuff reported. He was married with seven children. Hussein Al-Umari, 35, killed at Al Noor mosque, worked in the travel industry but had recently lost his job, his parents told Stuff. The family moved to New Zealand from the United Arab Emirates 22 years ago, according to the news site. Musa Vali Suleman Patel, 60, an imam in Fiji for about 25 years, had traveled to Australia and then New Zealand to spend time with children and friends, the Fiji Muslim League said in a statement.  He “served selflessly as an imam, teacher, mentor, and was much sought after as a powerful orator and speaker,” the organization said in a statement. He is survived by his wife and five children.Ashraf al-Masri had two young children and worked in a shop, according to Stuff. Police said he was 54 years old and a dual citizen of Egypt and New Zealand. Hussein Moustafa, 70, was originally from Egypt, according to Stuff. “He loved the mosque, he loved tidying it, he loved nourishing it and he was always a welcoming face there,” his daughter-in-law, Nada Tawfeek, told the news site. Mounir Soliman, 68, had been a design engineer and quality manager at Scotts Engineering in Christchurch since 1997, according to Stuff. He was a “lovely man,” said a spokeswoman for the company, Glenda Hillstead. He was married and had no children. Zeeshan Raza, 38, a mechanical engineer, moved to New Zealand last year from Karachi, Pakistan, Stuff reported. He and his parents were killed at the Linwood mosque. Mr. Raza’s father, Ghulam Hussain, was 66 years old. He and his wife, Karam Bibi, came to New Zealand last month to visit their son, Stuff reported. Ms. Bibi was 63, the police said. She and Mr. Hussain are survived by a daughter, according to Stuff.Abdukadir Elmi, 78, came to New Zealand with his family about 10 years ago, Stuff reported. In a Facebook post, his son, Said Abdukadir, said he was “a giant among his community,” generally known as Sheikh Abdukadir. “Kids would run to grab his chair when they hear the noise of his cane hitting against ground upon his entrance,” he wrote. He is survived by five sons, four daughters and his wife of nearly 50 years, according to Stuff.Mohsin Al Harbi, 63, had lived for 25 years in New Zealand, where he worked in water desalination. After the shooting, his wife, Manal, was hospitalized with a heart attack while searching for him, Stuff reported.Osama Adnan Youssef Kwaik, 37, was born in Gaza and raised in Egypt, according to Stuff. A civil engineer, he moved to Christchurch in 2017 and was in the process of applying for New Zealand citizenship. He had a wife and three children, one of whom was born in Christchurch.His older brother, Youssef Adnan Abu Kwaik, penned a tribute to Osama on Facebook, detailing how he thought Osama had found the safety and security he had desired in New Zealand.“From the first week, you sounded happy. Those Kiwi guys took you by surprise, didn’t they? I remember when you’d call me to tell me how they smile at you and your family,” he wrote. “It’s been a year and a half since you’ve moved my brother and your calls have started to include names of friends from work, neighbors and the community. You found the home you were looking for.”Mojammel Hoq, 30, moved to New Zealand from Bangladesh a few years ago and was studying in Christchurch, according to Radio New Zealand. Mohammed Omar Faruk, 36, was a welder who came to New Zealand from Bangladesh about two years ago, a friend told Stuff. His pregnant wife remained in Bangladesh, the friend said.Muhammed Abdusi Samad, 66, from Bangladesh, was a lecturer at Lincoln University who often led prayers at Al Noor mosque, Stuff reported.Muse Nur Awale, 77, had been living in Christchurch for about 30 years, Stuff reported. He was married and had no children.Ahmed Gamaluddin Abdel-Ghany, 68, emigrated from Egypt with his wife and son in 1996, Stuff reported. His son, Omar, called him “a great man with the purest of hearts” in an Instagram post. Zakaria Bhuiya was a welder originally from Bangladesh. He had recently married a woman from his home country and was waiting for a visa so she could join him in New Zealand, according to Reuters. Mr. Bhuiya worked for AMT Mechanical Services, which said in a statement that he had taken the day off to celebrate his 33rd birthday at the mosque. “Zakaria was a respected member of our team and a dear friend of ours,” the company said in a statement posted on a fund-raising page for Mr. Bhuiya’s wife. Jamie Tarabay, Damien Cave, Jon Hurdle and Charlotte Graham-McLay contributed reporting from Christchurch, New Zealand. Meher Ahmad contributed reporting from Lahore, Pakistan.International video coverage from The New York Times.Paul Manafort’s Trail of ScandalsMy Dead Dad’s Porno TapesTen Meter TowerBetween Sound and SilenceCoal Miner to Trump: “Coal Mining Isn’t Coming Back”House Tour | Cary LeibowitzSanctuary City HotlineInternational video coverage from The New York Times.Paul Manafort’s Trail of ScandalsMy Dead Dad’s Porno TapesTen Meter TowerBetween Sound and SilenceCoal Miner to Trump: “Coal Mining Isn’t Coming Back”House Tour | Cary LeibowitzSanctuary City HotlineAdvertisementSupported byBy Julie BosmanAURORA, Ill. — An angry worker who stormed through a suburban Chicago factory shooting his co-workers after being fired was barred from having the handgun he was carrying, the authorities said on Saturday.Gary Martin, 45, who died in a shootout with the police after a rampage on Friday that left five workers dead and at least six other people wounded, had his state weapons permit revoked years ago because of a felony assault conviction, the police in Aurora, Ill., said. Still, they said, Mr. Martin’s gun — a .40-caliber Smith & Wesson handgun with a laser sight — was never taken away.“Some disgruntled person walked in and had access to a firearm that he shouldn’t have had access to,” said Kristen L. Ziman, the chief of police in Aurora, where the shooting took place.[Read more about the shooting here.]Chief Ziman said that the police were trying to determine why Mr. Martin still had a gun, despite having his permit revoked five years ago.According to Illinois gun law, a person must be granted a Firearm Owners Identification card, or FOID, to possess a firearm. At least two million people in the state have the cards.But under the law, the process of removing firearms from people whose cards have been revoked is weak, making it easy for some to keep their weapons with little threat of enforcement or penalty.That appears to have been the case with Mr. Martin, who the police said received a card in January 2014. That March, he applied for a concealed-carry permit, and a background check revealed that he had a felony conviction for aggravated assault in Mississippi from 1995. With that, the Illinois State Police revoked Mr. Martin’s card and mailed him a letter ordering him to relinquish his firearm and card within 48 hours.The statute allows law enforcement agencies to petition the courts to seize weapons if they aren’t turned in, but in many instances, the remaining weapons go unchecked. Experts said that the state rules — without a clear, mandatory enforcement requirement — leave a gaping loophole for those who choose not to give up their guns. In 2016, only about 4,000 of the 11,000 people whose cards were revoked submitted the mandatory reports explaining what they did with their guns, The Chicago Tribune reported in 2017.Sgt. Bill Rowley, a spokesman for the Aurora Police Department, said the police had no record of being notified by the state police that Mr. Martin had not volunteered his firearm as required in 2014. It was unclear whether Mr. Martin, who lived in Aurora at the time of his death, also lived there in 2014.The police on Saturday gave a fuller account of the deadly events inside the Henry Pratt Company warehouse on Friday afternoon, and identified the five workers — all co-workers of Mr. Martin — who were killed.The victims included some of the company’s most experienced workers but also its newest: Josh Pinkard, who was the plant manager of the warehouse, perished in the shooting, as did Trevor Wehner, who was a student at Northern Illinois University and an intern in the company’s human resources department. Mr. Wehner was expected to graduate from college in May. Friday was the first day of his internship, according to officials from Northern Illinois University.“He knew he wanted to work in the H.R. business and was hoping this internship would lead into a full-time job in the future,” said Winter Lane, Mr. Wehner’s girlfriend of more than three years, who grew up with him in the same small town of Serena, in north central Illinois.Everyone there knew Mr. Wehner. He was kind, the most selfless person she had ever met, she said, someone with a big smile and a personality to match. “He always saw the good in everyone,” she said.Also killed, the police said, were Vicente Juarez, a stock room attendant and forklift operator; Clayton Parks, the human resources manager; and Russell Beyer, a mold operator. Officials at Northern Illinois said that Mr. Parks had also graduated from the university, in 2014, and that it was offering counseling help to those in need. (The school, in DeKalb, Ill., was the site of another mass shooting 11 years ago.)Abby Parks, the wife of Clayton Parks, said he was devoted to their son, Axel, who is 8 months old. “The family we created together was Clay’s greatest joy,” she said. “He took his responsibilities as a husband and father very seriously and held those titles above all else.” The couple had been married since 2016.The police first received several 911 calls at 1:24 p.m. on Friday, as frantic callers said there was a shooter at the warehouse. Mr. Martin had been summoned to what the police described as a “termination meeting” at the warehouse where he had worked for at least 15 years. At least two victims were shot at the scene of that meeting.Four minutes later, the police arrived and were confronted by the gunman. Two of the first four officers to arrive were shot and transported to hospitals with injuries that were not life-threatening.According to the police, Mr. Martin then retreated into the 29,000-square-foot building, hiding from officers in a machine shop near the back of the facility. It took about 90 minutes for officers to find, shoot and kill him.Scott Hall, the chief executive of Mueller Water Products, of which the Henry Pratt Company is a subsidiary, said that Friday was “the worst day our company has ever had.”Mr. Martin was being fired on Friday for a “culmination of various workplace rules violations,” he said, declining to describe the violations. The firing came at the end of a “progressive discipline process,” he said.The company conducted a background check upon Mr. Martin’s hiring 15 years ago that did not surface his felony conviction in Mississippi.Before Friday, there was no indication that Mr. Martin was violent. “If we have reason to believe that somebody is going to be violent, we take precautions,” he said. “I can only assume that we did not.”Family members of Mr. Martin arrived at the Aurora police station on Friday afternoon, weeping and hugging one another after officers told them that he was dead.“He was the shooter,” said Tameka Martin, who said she was Mr. Martin’s sister. “He shot officers. If they did shoot him and kill him, they were, I guess, defending themselves.”Ms. Martin said that her brother had told his family that he had lost his job at Henry Pratt. At dinner a few nights ago at their mother’s home, Mr. Martin would barely speak about it. He was “very depressed,” she said.Sarah Mervosh, Julia Jacobs and Richard A. Oppel Jr. contributed reporting from New York, and Doris Burke contributed research from New York.AdvertisementSupported byBy Damien CaveCHRISTCHURCH, New Zealand — Abdul Aziz was praying with his four sons in the Linwood Mosque when he heard the gunshots. Rather than run from the noise, he ran toward it, grabbed the first thing he could find — a credit card machine — and flung it at the attacker.The man dropped a shotgun, and Mr. Aziz picked it up. “I pulled the trigger, and there was nothing,” he recalled. The gunman ran to his car, where he had other weapons, and Mr. Aziz followed, throwing the shotgun at the vehicle and shattering a window.Mr. Aziz’s actions, which he and others described in interviews, may have prompted the gunman to speed away rather than return to kill more people. Minutes later, two police officers from another town who were in the area rammed the suspect’s car into a curb and took him into custody, ending the worst mass murder in New Zealand’s modern history.The authorities have not released a detailed account of the police response to Friday’s massacre at two mosques in the city of Christchurch, emphasizing that officers apprehended the suspect only 36 minutes after receiving the first emergency call.But interviews with dozens of survivors, and an analysis of a video recorded by the attacker as well as one made of his arrest by a bystander, suggest that the violence ended after a near miss by the police at the first mosque — and acts of courage during and after the attack on the second.If not for the two police officers, who have not been publicly identified, and Mr. Aziz, 48, a ponytailed furniture shop owner who fled Afghanistan a quarter-century ago, the slaughter might have continued. The suspect had two other guns in his car, the police said, as well as two homemade explosives.“It absolutely was his intention to continue with his attack,” said Prime Minister Jacinda Ardern after the arrest of Brenton Tarrant, 28, a former personal trainer from Australia who allegedly distributed a manifesto of white extremist hatred minutes before the rampage.The police said 42 people were killed at central Christchurch’s Al Noor Mosque and seven at the Linwood Mosque, and some attributed the lower toll at Linwood to Mr. Aziz’s decision to confront the gunman. (An additional victim died at a hospital.)[New Zealand will open an inquiry on what was known about the gunman before the massacre.]It is unclear exactly what time the gunman entered Al Noor, which was crowded with worshipers for Friday Prayer. But the police said that they received the first call for help at 1:41 p.m., and that the first officers arrived there six minutes later.The video recorded by the gunman, which was livestreamed on Facebook, showed a man trying to tackle him inside the mosque, only to be shot and killed.Six minutes after firing his first shot, he drove away. Three minutes later, a siren can be heard on the video as he is driving to the second mosque.The siren becomes louder, then fades, suggesting the police and the gunman may have just missed each other, with officers and medical personnel racing toward Al Noor as he was pulling away.The nearest police station is less than two kilometers from the mosque, or little more than a mile, but the responding officers may have been farther away.There are 827 full-time constables in the Canterbury district, the pastoral region on the east coast of New Zealand’s South Island that includes Christchurch and that is home to about 612,000 people. By comparison, Boston, with a population of 617,000, employs more than 2,100 full-time officers.About 30 front-line police officers would be on the streets of Christchurch around lunchtime on an average Friday, said Chris Cahill, a detective inspector who is president of a local labor union for police officers.When that first panicked call came in, he added, the dispatcher would have sent all of them to Al Noor.Front-line officers in New Zealand are not armed and for protection wear only stab-proof vests, so those responding to the shootings would have had to pull over and retrieve weapons — a Glock pistol or a semiautomatic M4 rifle — and ballistic armor from the trunks of their cars, Mr. Cahill said.The police said a special armed tactical unit arrived at Al Noor Mosque four minutes after the first officers, or 10 minutes after the initial emergency call.Mr. Cahill said it normally would have taken longer, with team members summoned to a police station to suit up. On Friday, though, they happened to be in a training session in the city center and wearing their gear, he said.“Any police force in the world — to get to the scene in six minutes, a specialist team there in 10 — that would be a success,” Mr. Cahill said.Patrick Skinner, a former C.I.A. counterterrorism officer now working for an American police department, agreed.“I’d say that the police response was rather quick in a tactical sense,” he said, noting that the officers were rushing into a violent situation that was still unfolding — and that had been encouraged by individuals espousing bigotry and hatred.Still, it was not fast enough. The officers arrived to a horrific scene, with the dead and wounded outnumbering the city’s usual on-duty police force.“There was a river of blood coming out of the mosque,” said Paul Bennett, a paramedic who entered the building with a police escort. “It was literally flowing off terra-cotta tiles.”The authorities have said little about what happened next. It is not clear when ambulances arrived, and Christchurch Hospital reported receiving several wounded victims in cars driven by relatives. But Mr. Bennett and other medical workers said the speed of the response saved lives.And then the gunman attacked the Linwood Mosque, almost four miles east of Al Noor.“The second mosque would have been the real confusion,” Mr. Cahill said. “Calls coming in from one, and then calls saying a second mosque, and people saying, ‘What? Do you mean this mosque or that one?’ ”Lateef Alabi, the imam leading prayers at Linwood, said he heard a voice outside at about 1:55 p.m. so he stopped and looked out a window. He saw a man in military gear, wearing a helmet and holding a gun.Then he saw two bodies on the ground.He shouted to the congregation of about 80 people to get down. The gunman turned and fired through a window. He kept firing.Mr. Aziz ran toward him and threw the credit card machine, which was about the size of a large rock.Both men were relatively short and powerfully built. “He took five, six, shots at me,” Mr. Aziz recalled. “I dove between the cars.”Following the attacker, he found the shotgun, picked it up and tried to fire it at him, but it was empty.Mr. Aziz said his children were screaming for him to come back, and the gunman seemed agitated, swearing and talking about “killing you all.”Earlier at Al Noor, the gunman had returned to his car, retrieved another weapon and gone back inside to kill again. But at Linwood, after Mr. Aziz threw the shotgun at the vehicle — “like an arrow,” he said — the attacker drove away.“It was like my mind wasn’t working,” Mr. Aziz said. “It was automatic reaction, like anybody. I was prepared to give my life to save another life.”Officers arrived at the mosque soon afterward, he and other survivors said.Meanwhile, the authorities had begun locking down the neighborhood and searching for the gunman.The police said they arrested the suspect nearby at 2:17 p.m., but they have declined to explain how they found him and managed to capture him without an exchange of gunfire.Officials have confirmed the officers involved were from Lincoln, a town about 20 kilometers, or 12 miles, from central Christchurch. Local news reports said the officers just happened to be in Christchurch on the day of the attack.A video recorded by a bystander about four kilometers, or 2.5 miles, from Linwood shows the front of a police cruiser wedged into the right side of a sport utility vehicle and tilting it up against the curb on a leafy boulevard. The front tire of the suspect’s vehicle is still spinning.The suspect’s trunk is open, and one officer with a handgun drawn is approaching the passenger’s side door, which is also open. The other officer, armed with a rifle, is circling around the front of the vehicle to back him up.The first officer, still with gun drawn, pulls a rifle out of the vehicle with his free hand and tosses it on the sidewalk. Then he pulls the suspect out and the two officers subdue him.It is unclear if the officers or the suspect are saying anything to one another, and whether the suspect put up a fight.Mr. Tarrant was charged with murder on Saturday. More charges are expected.Because of an editing error, an earlier version of this article referred incorrectly to which side of the shooter’s vehicle he was pulled from by two arresting officers. It was the passenger side, not the driver’s side.Charlotte Graham-McLay, Jon Hurdle and Jamie Tarabay contributed reporting from Christchurch, New Zealand, Jin Wu from Hong Kong, and Malachy Browne from New York.Want more coverage from Australia and New Zealand? Sign up for the weekly Australia Letter, start your day with your local Morning Briefing and join us in our Facebook group.AdvertisementSupported byBy Dan BilefskyAlexandre Bissonnette, a 29-year-old former politics student fixated on President Trump, the far right and Muslims, was sentenced on Friday to life in prison without the possibility of parole for 40 years for shooting six people dead in an attack on a mosque in Quebec City in January 2017.During the attack, Mr. Bissonette shot several worshipers in the head. Nineteen people were injured, including one who was paralyzed for life.Under Canadian law, Mr. Bissonnette could have gone to prison for 150 years — or 25 years for each of the six deaths. While underscoring the brutality of the attack, Justice Franзois Huot of Quebec Superior Court suggested that such a harsh sentence would be excessive by denying the defendant the hope of ever leaving prison.But Muslim leaders, including the mosque’s president, Mohamed Labidi, said they were deeply disappointed by Justice Huot’s sentence, saying it did not do justice to a horrific crime.“This rampage left children without parents, destroyed lives, and this man can be free after 40 years?” he asked with incredulity. “We are very disheartened and upset.”Justice Huot announced the sentence after a hearing of more than five hours, during which he gave a minute-by-minute account of the rampage, which he said was “premeditated, gratuitous and abject” and motivated by “visceral hatred toward Muslims.”Several family members of victims sobbed.Legal scholars said his decision was likely to be challenged on appeal and could end up before Canada’s Supreme Court. And once there, they said, it could become a seminal test of the constitutionality of consecutive life sentences.Justice Huot discussed the 2011 Canadian criminal law, introduced by the previous Conservative government, that allows a judge to give sentences in 25-year increments in cases of multiple murders.He said that a 25-year sentence was not severe enough in this case, given the severity of the crime, but that 50 years or more would be excessive.In what legal scholars called an “extremely complex judgment,” Justice Huot parsed his decision by sentencing Mr. Bissonnette to life in prison with no chance of parole for 25 years on the first five counts of murder, and added 15 years for the sixth count.In his written judgment, Justice Huot said applying the 2011 law would have flouted the Canadian Charter of Rights and Freedoms, which states that “everyone has the right not to be subjected to any cruel and unusual treatment or punishment.”Kent Roach, a law professor at the University of Toronto who specializes in criminal law, called the judgment “innovative” and said it was likely to be challenged.Noting the case of Bruce McArthur, who was convicted of killing eight men associated with Toronto’s gay community and  sentenced on Friday to life with no chance of parole for 25 years, Professor Roach said the sentences suggested that Canadian courts had a less punitive culture than the United States.“Both judgments reflect that Canadian judges are reluctant to give crushing sentences even for the most heinous crimes and resist inflexible sentencing laws,” he said.“In the U.S. there is a longer history of legislatures imposing mandatory sentences that limit judiciary discretion,” he added. “In Canada, there is more of a focus on rehabilitation.”He noted that Justice Huot appeared to have taken into account Mr. Bissonnette’s mental state.Canada’s Supreme Court has in recent years overturned “tough on crime” legislation introduced by the previous Conservative government, including mandatory minimum sentences for drug offenses and mandatory minimum sentences for gun crimes.Prosecutors had argued that six consecutive 25-year jail sentences for each of the six first-degree murder charges befitted the heinousness of the crime, which they called both “violent” and “racist.” Mr. Bissonnette pleaded guilty last year to the charges.In an interview before the sentence was handed down, Irwin Cotler, a prominent international human rights lawyer who served as Canadian justice minister and attorney general, noted that the judge would have to consider the egregiousness of the crime as well as Mr. Bissonnette’s mental state.“Sentencing in cases of multiple murders are supposed to bear in mind the principles of retribution and denunciation,” he said.Referring to the sentence the prosecution wanted, he added, “You could argue that 150 years is tantamount to a death sentence and we abolished capital punishment.”In recent years, several judges have handed out 75-year sentences, including in the case of Justin Bourque, who killed three Royal Canadian Mounted Police officers in a shooting rampage in 2014Mr. Bissonnette’s attack on the mosque convulsed Canada, shocking a country that prides itself on its multiculturalism.The sentence comes amid a rancorous debate in Quebec after the province’s premier, Franзois Legault, drew opprobrium from Muslim leaders last month for contending that Islamophobia wasn’t a problem in Quebec.His office later qualified that he did not mean Islamophobia didn’t exist, but, rather, that it wasn’t systemic in the province.Still, his remarks — two days after the second anniversary of the mosque attack — were greeted with anger by survivors, including Aymen Derbali, who was hit with seven bullets and paralyzed from the waist down after trying to distract Mr. Bissonnette during the rampage.“There is Islamophobia — the proof is what happened at the mosque,” he told reporters at a ceremony last month, where he was being honored for his bravery.[Sign up for the Canada Letter newsletter for more Canadian coverage.]During a sentencing hearing that lasted for several weeks last year, the prosecution argued that Mr. Bissonnette had killed in a premeditated fashion and approached his victims with a coldblooded ruthlessness that merited the toughest sentence the law allowed.The court heard that Mr. Bissonnette was a socially marginalized young man who had become enthralled by far-right websites and obsessed by serial killers, Muslims and Mr. Trump’s tweets.In the month before the attack, he surfed the internet 819 times for posts related to Mr. Trump, including the American president’s travel ban on several Muslim-majority countries.Mr. Bissonnette had targeted the mosque just hours after he learned of a tweet by Prime Minister Justin Trudeau welcoming refugees to Canada who were being spurned by Mr. Trump.But the defense presented a contrasting narrative of Mr. Bissonnette, describing him as a slight young man who had been mercilessly bullied at school. The defense suggested that society had failed him and that he deserved empathy and the chance for rehabilitation.His defense lawyer, Charles-Olivier Gosselin, told the court that Mr. Bissonette suffered from chronic psychiatric problems, and did not fit the violent profile of a serial killer for whom consecutive sentences were appropriate.Mr. Gosselin had proposed a life sentence with the possibility of parole after 25 years. Mr. Bissonnette, he argued, had showed signs of remorse, had cooperated with the police and had surrendered after the attack.Follow Dan Bilefsky on Twitter: @DanBilefskyIan Austen contributed reporting.AdvertisementSupported byBy Sarah MervoshIt took New Zealand just six days to announce an immediate plan to change to the nation’s gun policy after a gunman killed 50 people at two mosques in Christchurch last week.On Thursday, a day after the first victims were laid to rest, Prime Minister Jacinda Ardern announced a national ban on all military-style semiautomatic weapons, all high-capacity ammunition magazines and all parts that allow weapons to be modified into the kinds of guns used in last week’s attack.Ms. Ardern is expected to encounter little resistance in Parliament. The new law could be in place as soon as April 11.It is unclear how the weapons ban will be felt in New Zealand, where there are plenty of guns but relatively few murders. Since 2007, gun homicides have been in the single digits every year except in 2009, when there were 11.But the swift action already stands in stark contrast to the federal response to mass shootings in the United States, which has the highest rate of gun ownership in the world and is one of only a few countries that start with the assumption that gun ownership is a right, not a privilege.After a gunman killed 58 people in Las Vegas in 2017, it took 443 days for the United States to ban bump stocks, the attachments that enable semiautomatic rifles to fire in sustained, rapid bursts, which the gunman used in the attack. And after a mass shooting at a high school in Parkland, Fla., last year led to a wave of student activism, the House of Representatives voted to require background checks for all gun purchasers in February. It was the first significant gun control bill to clear the chamber in a quarter of a century, but it was unlikely to even be taken up in the Republican-controlled Senate.In most countries, mass shootings account for a small proportion of gun deaths. But they are often the political impetus for legislative change that can help prevent other kinds of gun violence, including intimate-partner violence and suicide.Here is a look at how some other countries took action after mass shootings.____Ms. Ardern said the overhauls planned in New Zealand were partially inspired by changes Australia made after a mass shooting there in 1996.After a gunman with a semiautomatic rifle killed 35 people near a popular tourist site in the Tasmanian town of Port Arthur, John Howard, Australia’s conservative prime minister at the time, introduced a federal law to officially make guns a privilege, not a right. Gun owners were forced to provide a valid reason for owning a weapon, such as farming or hunting. Licensing rules were tightened, a 28-day waiting period for gun purchases was imposed and a national gun registry was established.The overhaul also severely restricted firearms, including a ban on almost all automatic and semiautomatic rifles, as well as shotguns. Australia bought back more than 650,000 firearms, to the resentment of many rural gun owners.Australia has not had a shooting as deadly as the Port Arthur massacre since 1996. Research shows the country also saw a decline in homicide and suicide after the legislative change, although researchers disagree about whether the ban can be credited for reducing homicides, which had already been declining.Australia is a much smaller country than the United States and also had fewer barriers to enacting gun control: There is no constitutional right to bear arms, for example, and there are no pro-gun lobbying groups with the influence of the National Rifle Association.____In 1987, a gunman in the southern English town of Hungerford killed 16 people, leading to tough British laws that required shotgun owners to register their weapons and prohibited semiautomatic weapons.Nearly a decade later, another gunman walked into a primary school in Dublane, Scotland, and killed 16 small children and their teacher. The gunman had been granted permits for all four guns used in the shooting, including two semiautomatic pistols.Afterward, the British government took action to limit gun ownership by civilians. By the end of 1997, Parliament had outlawed the private ownership of nearly all handguns.____In 2002, a 19-year-old expelled student returned to his high school in Erfurt, in eastern Germany, armed, and killed 16 people.That year, the German government tightened gun laws, including raising the legal age for carrying sports weapons to 21 from 18 and requiring gun buyers under 25 to present certification that they are medically and psychologically fit.Germany strengthened gun laws even further after another shooting in 2009, when a 17-year-old got his hands on one of his father’s guns and went on a rampage at his school in Winnenden, in southwest Germany, killing 15 people. The new regulations included allowing for random checks on weapons owners.As of 2015, gun-related crimes were far more unusual in Germany than in the United States.____Canada has had tough restrictions on handguns and automatic weapons since the 1930s. But the rules were expanded to include rifles and shotguns after a gunman with a semiautomatic hunting rifle stormed an engineering school in Montreal in 1989.Shouting “I hate feminists,” he separated the women from the men and killed 14 female students before turning the gun on himself.After that shooting, rifles and other long guns had to be registered like handguns and a majority of semiautomatic weapons. Gun owners were also required to obtain a license.But the long gun registry was unpopular in rural and northern areas, and, over the objections of police forces and some provinces, was abolished in 2012.Efforts to keep track of rifle and shotgun sales — the majority of firearms in Canada — continue to be much debated. The province of Quebec introduced its own long gun registry last year.Max Fisher contributed reportingFollow Sarah Mervosh on Twitter: @smervoshAdvertisementSupported byBy Jacey FortinLaw enforcement officers fired their weapons more than 180 times when they responded to the shooting at Pulse, a gay nightclub in Orlando, Fla., where 49 people were killed in 2016. But no civilians were struck by the officers’ gunfire, the state attorney for the Orlando area said on Wednesday.“After a review of shots fired by law enforcement officers on June 12, 2016, at the Pulse nightclub, all officers have been cleared of any wrongdoing,” said Aramis D. Ayala, the state attorney for the Ninth Judicial Circuit in Florida, at a news conference. “No casualties were the result of friendly fire.”After the F.B.I. and the Florida Department of Law Enforcement submitted investigations to the state attorney’s office, officials there reviewed evidence — including video footage, 911 calls, police radio traffic, ballistic reports and hundreds of witness statements — for six months before the officers were cleared.Pulse was hosting a “Latin Night” when the gunfire erupted around 2 a.m. on that Sunday morning, leading to what was, at the time, the deadliest mass shooting in United States history. In addition to the 49 deaths, more than 50 people were injured.At the news conference on Wednesday, Deborah Barra, the chief assistant state attorney, described the shooting in detail, including the gunman’s and officers’ movements in the three hours that passed from the moment the first shots were fired to the moment when the gunman was shot and killed by law enforcement officials.She said the gunman, armed with an assault rifle and a handgun, moved through the club firing at people. Eventually, his rifle jammed. He went into a bathroom and fired shots using his handgun. Officers entered the club in pursuit of the gunman and later knocked holes in the wall of the nightclub to reach him. He eventually appeared in one of those holes to fire at the officers outside and was shot.Overall, there were five separate instances in which officers — 14 in total — fired shots, Ms. Barra said. “Each time a law enforcement officer pulled the trigger, it was reasonable and justifiable,” she added.Critics of the officers’ response have asked why they did not reach the gunman until about three hours after the shooting began. According to sheriff’s dispatch logs released in June 2016, injured people were hiding in the bathroom during the shooting and making calls to 911 operators, begging for officers to help them. Officials have said that they had no choice but to wait and try to negotiate because the gunman was holding people hostage and claimed that he had a bomb. Ultimately, no explosives were found.Concerns about the officers’ timing did not fall under the scope of the state attorney’s review, which was focused on the shots fired by officers and whether those shots were justified. Reviews like these typically follow police shootings.“As our city grieves the senseless tragedy of the Pulse nightclub shooting, I hope sharing the results of this investigation help the survivors and loved ones find some closure,” Ms. Ayala said in a statement.The news conference in Orlando came on the heels of another in Tallahassee; on Tuesday, the Tallahassee Police Department said that a man who had shot and killed two women at a yoga studio there in November had previously been reported to the F.B.I. for creating videos in which he threatened to hurt women.On Thursday, Florida will mark the one-year anniversary of the school shooting that killed 17 people in Parkland.And last month, a gunman in Sebring, Fla., shot and killed five women in a bank.AdvertisementSupported byThe attack marks a grim new age of social media-fueled terrorism.By Charlie WarzelMr. Warzel is an Opinion writer at large.This post has been updated. On Friday, a gunman strapped on a helmet camera, loaded his car with weapons, drove to a mosque in Christchurch, New Zealand, and began shooting at anyone who came into his line of vision. The act of mass terror was broadcast live for the world to watch on social media.Forty-nine people were killed and more than 40 others were wounded in the attack, which occurred at two different mosques in the city. A suspect, Brenton Harrison Tarrant, was charged with one count of murder, with more charges reportedly expected. Three other people were detained by the police, but one was released hours later.A 17-minute video of a portion of the attack, which leapt across the internet faster than social media censors could remove it, is one of the most disturbing, high-definition records of a mass-casualty attack of the digital age — a grotesque first-person-shooter documentation of man’s capacity for inhumanity. Videos of attacks are designed to amplify the terror, of course. But what makes this atrocity “an extraordinary and unprecedented act of violence,” as Prime Minister Jacinda Ardern described it, is the methodical nature with which it was conducted and how it was engineered for maximum virality.Though platforms like Facebook, Twitter and YouTube scrambled to take down the recording and an accompanying manifesto apparently from the gunman, they were no match for the speed of their users; new artificial-intelligence tools created to scrub such platforms of terrorist content could not defeat human cunning and an impulse to gawk. In minutes, the video was downloaded and mirrored onto additional platforms and ricocheted around the globe. Screen shots were created from still frames of bodies and uploaded to sites like Reddit, 4chan and Twitter where they were shared and reshared. Some Twitter users described frantically trying to stop videos in their feeds from autoplaying, so as not to be bombarded from around the globe with the recording of the carnage. Internet users dredged up the alleged shooter’s digital history, preserving and sharing images of weapons and body armor. The gunman’s apparent digital footprint — from the rantings of a white nationalist manifesto to his 8chan message board postings before the murders — was unearthed and, for a time, distributed into far-flung corners of the web. The killer wanted the world’s attention, and by committing an act of mass terror, he was able to get it.It was not the first act of violence to be broadcast in real-time on social media. In 2015, two reporters in Roanoke, Va., were murdered by a gunman who posted the footage on Twitter. Not long after, Periscope, a live streaming app, came under fire after a teenager live-streamed her suicide. Other murders have been broadcast live on Facebook, like the apparently random killing of Robert Godwin in 2017. There have also been numerous recordings of encounters — sometimes fatal — with police. Since the live video tool debuted in late 2015, users have also broadcast rape and child abuse — a 2017 survey by BuzzFeed News found “at least 45 instances of violence” across the platform.And yet the Christchurch shooting was different, in part because of its perpetrator’s apparent familiarity with the darkest corners of the internet. The recording contains numerous references to online and meme culture, including the shooter name-checking a prominent YouTube personality shortly before beginning the attack. The digital trail the shooter left behind appears to depict a white supremacist motivation for the attack. There is much, at this early date, that is unknown, despite what’s been posted online. The 87-page manifesto, for instance, is filled with layers of ironic, self-referential commentary, apparently written to enrage the communities that appear to have helped radicalize the gunman in the first place. It seems that the Christchurch shooter — who by his digital footprint appears to be native to the internet — understands not only the platform dynamics that allow misinformation and divisive content to spread but also the way to sow discord.As terrifying as the violence itself is, so, too, is how well the online community worked in the gunman’s favor. This may be our new reality. Not only has conspiratorial hate spread from the internet to real life; it’s also weaponized to go viral.The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. We’d like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips. And here’s our email: letters@nytimes.com.AdvertisementSupported byThe killing of 50 people in New Zealand last week seems to be the most extreme example of a mass shooter using the internet as part of his arsenal of destruction and hate. We look at how this affected our calculations around how to cover the attack.By Hanna IngberSadly, The Times has covered a lot of shootings. But the killing of 50 people at mosques in Christchurch, New Zealand, on Friday by a gunman intent on using the tools of the internet as weapons in his fight raised a number of new issues for our newsroom.In the aftermath of the attack, we sat down with some of our top editors who make the difficult calls about how to cover the news without inadvertently glorifying a killer or becoming a pawn in his game.Here’s a look at some of the issues our journalists have been sorting through. Please leave additional questions or feedback for them in the comments.The shooter strapped a camera to his forehead to stream a live video on Facebook as he gunned down dozens of people who had gathered to pray. He teased his act on Twitter, announced it on the online message board 8chan and appeared to have posted a 74-page manifesto online.Kevin Roose, a Times columnist who writes about the intersection of technology, business and culture, told Michael Barbaro on The Daily on Monday morning: “It set this shooting up as almost an internet performance. Like it was native to the internet, and it was born out of and aimed into this culture of extremely concentrated internet radicalism.”In many ways, the attack unfolded online just as the gunman seemed to have planned. The video was widely available on sites like Facebook, Twitter and YouTube, until the platforms managed mostly to block it. On message boards, commenters discussed saving the video so it could later be uploaded on other sites if necessary.“There is no doubt in my mind that this guy was very aware of how his video and his manifesto would filter through the internet and get refracted and picked up and analyzed,” Kevin said. “This was, in a way, engineered for internet virality.”The manipulation of technology and use of online social platforms to document the killings, publicize them and try to inspire others to imitate them posed significant ethical challenges for our journalists running the coverage.Michael Slackman, our international editor, called this an extreme corruption of a form of communication that was once promoted and viewed as a means of uniting people and advancing democratic values.“Instead, you have someone who designed a horrific terrorist attack using all of the power of social media and the internet to spread his vile views,” he said. “So for us, it was how do you cover it in that context, how do we understand it and explain it, and how do we avoid becoming the tools of a terrorist?”Our editors often have to decide if we should publish disturbing images or videos from shootings, bombings and war. They must weigh an image’s news value and our mission to inform the public about the horrors of an attack against how intrusive the image is and how upsetting it could be for our readers or those affected by the tragedy to see it.“We have to have a real reason for showing these things,” said Mark Scheffler, our deputy editor of video. The video or images must be used “to tell a broader story, not just to say, ‘Here’s video of this guy’s shooting spree.’”[Read about a recent debate among our readers and in our newsroom over whether we should have published graphic photographs after a deadly attack in Nairobi.]This case was different because the person who shot the video was not an eyewitness, journalist or member of law enforcement. It was the attacker himself.“Here, the fact that the video was made by the killer added a whole other dimension to it,” said Phil Corbett, our associate managing editor for standards. “You have this additional factor of, Are you going to help publicize this terrorist video that the killer has made himself, obviously with the intent of it being seen as widely as possible? That made all of us even more cautious and wary about whether we would use any images.”Ultimately our editors decided not to run any of the gunman’s video of the attack or even link to it.Even if an assailant has clear goals of wanting video of his attack publicized — and knows how to use the internet to make his massacre go viral — the material itself might have news value. While we don’t want to be part of a gunman’s propaganda effort, our primary goal remains providing newsworthy information to our readers.However, as Phil explained, our journalists must still take into consideration the source of the video and the motivations of the gunman who produced it so that we do not inadvertently become part of the story.“Terrorists want publicity and recognition,” he said. “If we decide to publish it, even if for legitimate journalistic reasons, we have to recognize that to some degree our actions are part of the whole event, and that is an uncomfortable position for us to be in.”He added that news organizations like The Times are particularly sensitive to this because we have been closely following how platforms like Facebook have been misused to spread hateful campaigns and disrupt elections.“We don’t want to essentially be in the same situation,” he said.Another unusual aspect of this attack was that the manifesto attributed to the accused killer and published on message boards was not simply a disturbing dissertation on his political ideology and motivations, such as ones released by other mass killers. In this situation, the gunman appears to have intentionally filled it with language to troll and confuse the news media.“It was full of deception and misdirection,” Michael said. “It was written in a way to trick and make fun of the public and the press.”The Times initially decided to handle the manifesto by assigning two reporters to annotate sections of it. After closely reading the material, however, the reporters realized they couldn’t annotate it without playing into the hands of the attacker. Instead, our international correspondent Patrick Kingsley wrote an article that sought to answer the questions we had hoped the manifesto would address: What was the gunman thinking, and why did he open fire at two mosques?In the end, we neither linked to nor annotated the manifesto.After school shootings in the United States and other mass attacks, we increasingly hear from readers who ask that we not publish the name or photo of the suspect because they worry that doing so glorifies assailants and inspires additional attacks.After we published news on Tuesday that the prime minister of New Zealand, Jacinda Ardern, would not use the suspect’s name in order not to give him notoriety, readers questioned why in that very article The Times ran the man’s name.“The media holds responsibility to tell the truth but also not sensationalize and in this case, as muted as it might seem, you are complicit,” a commenter wrote on our site.The Times profiles attackers, and names them, after such incidents in order to give our readers a better understanding of what happened and why.“Our feeling has always been that who these people are is part of the news,” Matt Purdy, a deputy managing editor, said on Friday, as The Times sought to confirm the gunman’s identity. “It’s not more important than the lives that are lost, by any means, but who these people are could explain to people what their interests and experiences are. In a very depressing way, it is important. It’s news.”As school shootings and other such attacks have become more common, we have also tried to balance our need to provide information with the legitimate concerns of not inspiring new attacks or giving notoriety to a killer who is seeking just that.In the case of the New Zealand attack, The Times decided to publish the suspect’s name but made sure to use it responsibly. We have not put it in headlines and do not cite it gratuitously.We have handled a photograph of the gunman in the same way. We ran it as a small image inside the newspaper; we did not put it on our home page or front page.“We are trying to hit that right balance of informing readers, helping readers understand who this person was, and yet not providing the notoriety that might then inspire the next person,” Phil said.The attack in New Zealand is unlikely to be the last in which a gunman uses the internet to try to control the narrative. Kevin, our technology columnist, says that journalists need to be aware of these tactics and handle material posted online with extreme caution.“I think we need to understand — and we’re starting to, I think — that media manipulation is often a key part of how violent extremists plan their activities,” he explained.“They see us as easy marks, and they know that most journalists don’t know what 8chan is, let alone understand the ideological terrain there,” he said. “So we need to be exceedingly careful with these things, and not just repeat their claims at face value.”AdvertisementSupported byBy The Associated PressWELLINGTON, New Zealand — When the gunman began to attack the Al Noor mosque, Ahmed Alayedy scrambled to get to the nearest emergency exit. He was the first one there."I tried to open the door," he said. "But it doesn't open."Alayedy and other survivors of the March 15 mosque attacks in New Zealand have described to The Associated Press a scene of confusion and terror at the door on one side of the main prayer room, in the first accounts of the role the door played.Alayedy said so many people began crushing him against the door that some of his ribs cracked. Another survivor, Khaled Alnobani, says he thinks as many as 17 people may have died trying to get out through the door.Investigators have likely examined a new electric locking system installed on the door in the days before the attack. The mosque says an electrician disabled that system the day before the attack, although some of those who escaped question whether that was the case. What is clear is that nobody managed to open the door that afternoon.With the gunman in the middle of the room, the door represented the only escape route for those on one side of him, at least until people started smashing windows to get out.Fifty people were slaughtered by the gunman at two Christchurch mosques during the attack, including 42 who died at Al Noor. Alayedy and others say that if the door had been wide open like it typically was during Friday prayers, many more people might have escaped.Shagaf Khan, the president of the Muslim Association of Canterbury which oversees the mosque, said the door was closed and latched much like the front door of a house. He said it wasn't locked, although worshippers may have believed it was in the confusion.He said an electrician had tested the new electric locking system on Thursday, and then disengaged it for Friday prayers. He said that to open the door, somebody needed to turn a lever. It was just happenstance, and perhaps the cool weather that day, he said, which meant the door wasn't wide open as usual."On any other Friday, the door would be open," he said. "But on this Friday, nobody opened that door."He said he agreed that more people would have escaped if the door had been open."If it had been completely open, it would have been easy for people to get out," he said. "But nobody was prepared for this. We were prepared for an emergency like a fire or an earthquake, and people would still have time to get out. This is something totally different. You don't put this in your emergency plan."Alayedy said that in the confusion, he can't be sure if he simply failed to turn the lever properly or if something else stopped the door from opening.Alnobani, said he, too, tried to open the door and it didn't work, and he's familiar with the lever. He said he believes the door was electronically locked. Simply pushing a button next to the door would have unlocked it, he said, but nobody knew about the new system.Khan said the mosque was in compliance with regulations, which require emergency exits to be clear from objects, easily accessible, and unlocked.Police said the scene examination is part of their investigation and they will not be commenting while the investigation is ongoing.Robert Wright, the Christchurch City Council head of building consents, said in an email the mosque was in compliance with the Building Act at the time of the attacks and had a valid certificate known as a "Building Warrant of Fitness."Alayedy, 30, said that on the day of the attack, he'd been listening to a holy speech by imam Gamal Fouda when he heard six or seven shots. He thought it was an electrical fault at first but then heard screaming and ran for the door."All the brothers come in behind each other, on top of each other," he said.Because he couldn't open the door, he said, he tried punching the hexagonal piece of glass in the lower part of the door. When that didn't work, he drove his knee through it, shattering the glass, and then kicked it out. He crawled through and ran for safety.Alayedy, a chef from Jordan who moved to New Zealand nine years ago, said he thought about his family back at their house as he ran. His pregnant wife, his 3-year-old son, and the baby daughter they hope to have within the next couple of weeks.Behind the mosque, Alayedy said, he began helping people to escape over a fence but couldn't get over it himself because of his injured ribs.Another survivor provided a second escape route near the door by diving through a window with his arm wrapped around his eyes. Tarik Chenafa said he heard a tat-tat-tat-tat-tat and knew right away it was a semi-automatic weapon from his two years of compulsory military training in the Algerian army."I know someone is coming to kill us," he said.Alnobani said that when he first came to the mosque that Friday, he'd noticed the side door was shut and considered opening it but then saw there were some older worshippers. It was a little cold and windy outside, he figured, so he left it alone.Alnobani said he also managed to crawl through the door's smashed glass and run. He returned to help rescue a young boy whose father was shoving him through the opening, he said, and then helped the father as well."I tried to save the child, and I thought maybe I lose my life," he said. "But I am just alone," he said, adding "He had more than me to lose."When he tried to help a third person through the opening, Alnobani said, that man was shot. The gunman walked out of the mosque to get another gun from his car, Alnobani said, and began shooting at him when he returned. But he managed to escape, and then drove two injured people to the hospital.The gunman acted quickly, mowing down people on both sides of the mosque. On the side opposite from the closed door, some worshippers were able to escape, but the gunman also killed many others as they tried to leave."And he was actually standing behind them, and he was shooting and shooting and shooting and shooting," Fouda, the imam, told the AP after the attack. "Tragedy. Tragedy."Brenton Tarrant, a 28-year-old Australian, has been charged with murder in the attack. His next court appearance is scheduled for April 5.AdvertisementSupported byBy Charlotte Graham-McLay, Austin Ramzy and Daniel VictorWELLINGTON, New Zealand — At least 49 people were killed at two mosques in Christchurch, New Zealand, on Friday, in a horrific and methodical afternoon slaughter, part of which was broadcast live on the internet after the publication of a white supremacist manifesto online.The massacre, which Jacinda Ardern, New Zealand’s prime minister, condemned as a terrorist attack and called “an extraordinary and unprecedented act of violence,” interrupted a day of prayer for a small immigrant community in the nation’s third-largest city and shook a country with little history of mass shooting.Harrowing first-person footage, apparently from a camera worn by a gunman as he attacked the Al Noor Mosque in the center of the city, was streamed on Facebook — a grim milestone in the evolution of terrorism that raised questions about how tech companies can block extremists from using social media to spread hate and inspire violence.[Follow our live briefing here.]Facebook said it quickly shut down the account, but a 17-minute video showing a man dressed in black shooting at fleeing worshipers and into piles of bodies with a semiautomatic rifle circulated widely online. In addition to those killed, at least 48 people were being treated for gunshot wounds, including young children, the authorities said.The police said a man in his late 20s was arrested and charged with murder but declined to identify him. The police also said they seized several weapons and found two explosive devices on a vehicle.“This is and will be one of New Zealand’s darkest days,” Ms. Ardern said at a news conference.Schools in the downtown area were locked down for hours after the attacks as the police tried to determine whether the gunman acted alone. The authorities urged residents to stay indoors, asked mosques to close and cleared nearby Cathedral Square, where people had gathered as part of worldwide protests to demand action on climate change.New Zealand’s police commissioner, Mike Bush, said three other individuals found near the scene with weapons were also taken into custody, though investigators later said that one probably had nothing to do with the attacks.The shootings were first reported at about 1:40 p.m., around the time of the midday Friday prayer, when the Al Noor Mosque and the Linwood Mosque, about three miles east, would be most busy. The manifesto had appeared online minutes earlier.The document named both mosques, and links to it were posted on Twitter and 8chan, an online forum known for hosting message boards with extremist right-wing discussions. The 8chan post included a link to what appeared to be the gunman’s Facebook page, where he said he would soon broadcast live video of the attack.But it was not immediately clear whether the name on the page was that of the suspect, and the authorities declined to comment.Ms. Ardern said that many of the victims were most likely migrants to New Zealand or refugees.“Christchurch was the home of these victims,” she said. “For many this may not have been the place they were born. For many, New Zealand was their choice, the place that they chose to come to and committed themselves to, the place they chose to raise their families.”She added that New Zealand was likely targeted “because we represent diversity, kindness, compassion, a home for those who share our values, refuge for those who need it.”Nasreen Hanif, a spokeswoman for the Islamic Women’s Council of New Zealand, said people were anxious for updates and were worried that friends or family members were among the dead.“Nobody’s answering their phones,” she said. “We don’t know if they’re at the hospital or out of reach. Some have posted that they are safe, but others have not.”Ms. Hanif said the two mosques in Christchurch had asked for help from Muslims across the country to arrange the 49 funerals they would need to plan.Historians say Muslims have lived in New Zealand for more than 150 years, but the population has grown with immigration from war-torn countries like Iraq and Afghanistan in the 1990s and 2000s. In a country of nearly five million people, though, only about 46,000 identified as Muslim in the 2013 census.The video of the attack, which appeared to be recorded on a helmet camera, showed the gunman driving to the mosque and then opening fire even before he entered the building. For nearly two minutes, he shoots at fleeing worshipers before he runs back to his car and swaps weapons.He then is seen re-entering the mosque and opening fire again, methodically moving from room to room and shooting into piles of bodies slumped on the green carpets. Several victims can be seen in the footage, many lying on top of one another motionless in a corner of the room.After another few minutes, the gunman leaves again, gets in his vehicle and drives away, pausing occasionally to fire at pedestrians while talking to himself throughout.“There wasn’t even time to aim, there was so many targets,” he says at one point.The police in New Zealand said they were working to remove the video from the internet and urged people not to share it.A live video posted to social media appeared to show the attack at Al Noor Mosque, where 42 people were killed. The clip appeared to have been taken from a camera worn by a gunman.3 The gunman’s video shows him driving away six minutes after the first shot.1 The gunman parked inthe alley next to the mosque,according to the live video.Al NoorMosqueDeans Ave.2 He openedfire at around1:40 p.m.Re-entered mosque and began firingResumed firingoutside the mosqueShot abystanderFirst shot firedParkedExited mosqueGot new gun fromparked carExitedmosqueDroveaway1 min.later234563 The gunman’s video shows him driving away six minutes after the first shot.1 The gunman parked inthe alley next to the mosque,according to the live video.SouthHagleyParkAl NoorMosqueDeans Ave.2 He opened fire ataround 1:40 p.m.Re-enteredmosque andbegan firingResumed firingoutside the mosqueShot abystanderFirst shot firedParkedExited mosqueGot a new gunfrom the parked carLeft mosqueDroveaway1 minute later234563 The gunman’s video shows him driving away six minutes after the first shot.1 The gunman parked inthe alley next to the mosque,according to the live video.Al NoorMosqueDeans Ave.South Hagley Park2 He opened fire ataround 1:40 p.m.Resumed firingoutside the mosqueRe-entered mosqueand began firingShot abystanderFirst shot firedParkedExited mosqueGot a new gunfrom the parked carLeft mosqueDroveaway1 minute later23456By Jin Wu and Allison McCann | Note: Times are local time.Facebook said it was alerted by the police shortly after the livestream started. “We quickly removed both the shooter’s Facebook and Instagram accounts and the video,” Mia Garlick, a Facebook representative, said in a statement. “We’re also removing any praise or support for the crime and the shooter or shooters as soon as we’re aware.”Before the shooting began, the gunman made a winking reference to an internet meme, telling viewers to “subscribe to PewDiePie,” a reference to the Swedish YouTube star Felix Kjellberg. Mr. Kjellberg, who has been criticized for anti-Semitism over skits that he called satirical, said on Twitter that he felt “absolutely sickened” that the gunman had mentioned him.The video and Twitter posts showed weapons covered in the names of past military generals and men who have recently carried out mass shootings.The author of the manifesto identifies himself as a 28-year-old man born in Australia. He listed his white nationalist heroes, described his animosity toward Muslims and immigrants, and said he chose to use guns in the attacks to stir discord in the United States around the Second Amendment.Aman Singh, 26, who works at a convenience store close to the Al Noor Mosque, said he hid after hearing gunshots and seeing people stream past, bloody and crying.“My really good friend goes there,” he said, adding that he had not been able to confirm the friend’s whereabouts.Mohammad Isam, a Bangladeshi journalist, posted a video of members of Bangladesh’s national cricket team who he said escaped the attack.Christchurch, with about 388,000 residents, is the biggest city on New Zealand’s South Island, hugging the Pacific Ocean coast.There hasn’t been a mass shooting in New Zealand since 1990, when a man killed 13 people, including two 6-year-olds, after a dispute with his neighbor in the seaside town of Aramoana.That shooting led to tightened gun laws, including restrictions on “military style semiautomatic weapons.”Gun owners must be licensed, a process that includes a review of criminal activity and mental health, attendance at a safety program, an explanation of how the gun would be used, a residence visit to ensure secure storage, and testimonials from relatives and friends.Murders are rare in New Zealand, and gun homicides even rarer. There were 35 murders countrywide in 2017. Since 2007, gun homicides have been in the single digits each year except 2009, when there were 11.But there are plenty of guns. There were 1.2 million registered firearms in a country of 4.6 million people in 2017, according to the Small Arms Survey, a Swiss nonprofit.Charlotte Graham-McLay reported from Wellington, New Zealand, and Austin Ramzy and Daniel Victor from Hong Kong. Damien Cave contributed reporting from Sydney, and Megan Specia and Jason Bailey from New York.Want more coverage from Australia and New Zealand? Sign up for the weekly Australia Letter, start your day with your local Morning Briefing and join us in our Facebook group.OpinionCharlie WarzelAdvertisementSupported byBy Niraj ChokshiOne of YouTube’s biggest celebrities found himself entangled early Friday in news coverage of the mass shooting at two mosques in New Zealand.A gunman who had broadcast part of the attack that left at least 49 people dead urged those watching to “subscribe to PewDiePie,” referring to the alias used by Felix Kjellberg, a Swede whose channel has long dominated YouTube and courted controversy along the way.Mr. Kjellberg was quick to distance himself from the shooting.“I feel absolutely sickened having my name uttered by this person,” he said on Twitter. “My heart and thoughts go out to the victims, families and everyone affected by this tragedy.”Mr. Kjellberg is no stranger to controversy. In recent years, he has been embraced by some on the far right and faced criticism for his use of anti-Semitic imagery and racist and sexist language. Here is a closer look at PewDiePie and the New Zealand gunman’s words.As PewDiePie, Mr. Kjellberg has amassed a following of 89 million YouTube subscribers over the past decade with videos that feature a mix of comedic rants, commentary and video game narration.Though edited, the videos carry an intimate, unguarded aesthetic that has helped Mr. Kjellberg remain relevant and sought after by advertisers. According to Forbes, a sponsored video with PewDiePie can cost up to $450,000. Mr. Kjellberg earned $15.5 million last year.[Sign up for the Morning Briefing newsletter for a look at what you need to know to begin your day.]There’s more to the gunman’s words — “subscribe to PewDiePie” — than meets the eye.Kevin Roose, a columnist for The New York Times, wrote on Friday that the message may have served two purposes: to inflame political tensions and to serve as a knowing nod to those who might be watching the gunman’s actions with approval.To achieve those ends, the gunman, who has not been officially identified, used a meme born out of a competition for YouTube dominance.Last year, T-Series, a music label and film production company based in India, emerged as a threat to PewDiePie’s top-ranked status on YouTube.In response, Mr. Kjellberg jokingly rallied his fans to stave off T-Series, even going so far as to make a comedic diss track to play up the competition. Other YouTubers got in on the fight, too, with some buying radio and display advertising.As with many other oft-repeated phrases online, “subscribe to PewDiePie” became a symbol, a meme, unto itself.In 2017, Disney severed ties with Mr. Kjellberg and YouTube distanced itself from him after The Wall Street Journal identified at least nine of his videos that featured anti-Semitic gestures and imagery.In one, a pair of men hired by Mr. Kjellberg unfurled a sign that read “Death to All Jews” and then laughed and danced. In another, he wears a brown military uniform, nodding along to archival footage of Hitler delivering a speech.Some of the videos were removed and Mr. Kjellberg described the segments as jokes, saying in a statement that he was “in no way supporting any kind of hateful attitudes” and that “I understand that these jokes were ultimately offensive.”Despite those comments, members of the far-right embraced what Mr. Kjellberg had done.A post on The Daily Stormer, a neo-Nazi website, noted that the videos raised questions about Mr. Kjellberg’s own views, but concluded that they didn’t matter: “The effect is the same; it normalizes Nazism, and marginalizes our enemies.”In an article last year, Paul MacInnes, who writes on sports and popular culture for The Guardian, faulted mainstream publications for largely ignoring Mr. Kjellberg.“To call him an alt-right agitator would perhaps be unfair as he has never publicly identified with the proto-fascist movement,” Mr. MacInnes wrote. “But he shares much of their culture and amplifies it across the world. People should pay PewDiePie more attention.”Later in 2017, Mr. Kjellberg used a racial slur during a video game livestream, which he later described as “extremely immature and stupid.”“I said the worst word I could possibly think of, and it just sort of slipped out and I’m not going to make any excuse as to why,” he said in a video apologizing for his use of the word.Last year, Mr. Kjellberg got into a feud with Natalia Mogollon, another online personality famous on Twitch, where she goes by the alias Alinity Divine and narrates livestreams of video games.In a video testing out an eye-tracking device, Mr. Kjellberg jokingly referred to women in one of the videos he watched, including Ms. Mogollon, as “stupid Twitch thots,” a derogatory term.Ms. Mogollon took offense. In an ensuing back-and-forth, Mr. Kjellberg suggested that she intentionally dresses provocatively on her stream.“Oh, you’re just playing games with the shortest skirt ever, that’s our fault for looking at it in any sexual way, right?” he said.A few months later, he was criticized as insensitive for sharing a meme that made light of the singer Demi Lovato’s struggle with drugs.AdvertisementSupported byBy The Associated PressWASHINGTON — The Supreme Court on Thursday declined to stop the Trump administration from enforcing its ban on bump stock devices, which allow semi-automatic weapons to fire like machine guns.The ban took effect Tuesday. Gun rights groups asked the court Monday to keep the government from enforcing the ban for now. Chief Justice John Roberts declined one request for the court to get involved on Tuesday and a second request was declined by the court on Thursday. That was the only remaining request. The justices didn't say anything in declining it.The administration's ban puts it in the unusual position of arguing against gun rights groups. President Donald Trump said last year that the government would move to ban bump stocks. The action followed a 2017 shooting in Las Vegas in which a gunman attached bump stocks to assault-style rifles he used to shoot concertgoers from his hotel room. By using the devices, which allow shots to be fired more rapidly, the gunman was able to fire more than 1,000 rounds in 11 minutes. Fifty-eight people were killed and hundreds were injured.The Trump administration's move was an about-face for the federal Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives. In 2010, under the Obama administration, the ATF found that the devices were legal. But under the Trump administration, officials revisited that determination and found it incorrect. The revised regulation, which went into effect Tuesday, requires owners either to destroy their bump stocks or surrender them. The government estimates hundreds of thousands of the devices have been sold.AdvertisementSupported byAdvertisementSupported byBy Damien Cave and Jamie TarabayCHRISTCHURCH, New Zealand — The families drifted from the mosques to the hospital, their emotions battered, their eyes bloodshot.More than a day had passed since the attacks on Friday that killed 50 people at two mosques in Christchurch, and many still did not know the fate of loved ones they believed were at prayer when the gunman arrived and started firing.Akhtar Khokhar, who arrived two months ago from India to visit her son, had come to the hospital for answers.“This is my husband,” she said, holding up a photo before an imam who was at Christchurch Hospital to try to help family members. He shook his head with uncertainty.Others faced similar frustrations, with no firm answers about who had died.“This is the best they can do?” asked Zuhair Darwish, as his brother’s wife in Jordan kept calling, desperate, wanting to know whether to plan a funeral.Hours before, the gunman who had inflicted all this pain was charged with one count of murder, with dozens more expected.Prime Minister Jacinda Ardern, who flew to Christchurch to visit with families, vowed that “our gun laws will change — now is the time.” Minutes before the shooting began on Friday, Ms. Ardern was emailed a copy of the racist manifesto purported to be from the gunman.[Read live updates here from New York Times journalists in Christchurch.]On Saturday evening, Mr. Darwish, like many others, still could not believe where the horror had landed him: in a hospital cafeteria, renamed a “relatives room,” that was crowded with grief and hot with anger.Dozens of family members — teenagers in T-shirts, grandmothers in head scarves, bearded men in jeans — were there, squeezed together and pressing for information from overwhelmed officials.“It’s illegal to hide the names from us!” Mr. Darwish shouted at a police official, who was fielding questions while standing on a chair at the back of the room, where few could hear him. “You have to provide them!”This was not where they belonged, many of the survivors said.Bloodshed, terrorism and fear were what some of them had left behind, fleeing countries like Pakistan, Afghanistan and Somalia. Others were born here, used to relative quiet and peace. But in the land of emerald green rugby pitches, hatred found them all anyway.[Go here to read how the attack unfolded on Friday.]They responded with the full range of human emotion. Walking between the mosques and the hospital revealed countless examples of tears and outrage. There was debilitating sadness. There was confusion, but also the kind of love you see in hugs that hold tight and bring tears without concern for who is looking.“This is a test,” said Zia Aiyaz, 32, an engineer originally from Afghanistan who flew to Christchurch from Hamilton, New Zealand, to help the families of those who were killed or wounded. “God is testing us — testing the families and us, and we’re here to help.”Islam first arrived in Christchurch in 1854, with a family from India, local history says. Its roots strengthened in the 1970s with the arrival of Afghan immigrants, and again in the ’90s with new arrivals from other countries.The Muslim community is neither highly visible nor invisible here in Christchurch, a pleasant city of 350,000 near the South Island’s Pacific Coast. Mostly Sunni, they are part of a small but growing group of around 46,000 Muslims overall in a country of 4.6 million. In Christchurch, their ranks include students at local universities, taxi drivers, professionals, nurses — and imams like Lateef Alabi.A leader at the Linwood Mosque, he is originally from Nigeria but is also close to finishing a Ph.D in Malaysia. He has been in New Zealand for three years.On Saturday, he moved briskly between all the areas where families had gathered, having changed into a clean, gray dishdasha robe. His garment from the day before had been stained with blood.He often found that he had little to offer those in need.When Ms. Khokhar found him, and told him her husband had been at Al Noor Mosque, he shook his head and just said, “Oh no.” That was where 41 people had been killed.Many of those who attended prayers on Friday were regulars, for whom Islamic practice was woven into engaged lives in the city.Yasir Amin Nasr, 35, who moved from Lahore, Pakistan, five years ago, now works for the Christchurch City Council. He and his father, Muhammad Amin Nasr, had parked their car up the road from Al Noor Mosque on Friday and were walking toward the building when they first heard gunfire.After another burst of gunshots, he pleaded with his father to run away, and quickly. But it was too late.“Two, three seconds, he was just in front of us, pointing the gun at us,” Mr. Nasr said, trying to show a distance of some eight yards separating them from the gunman.“I saw him. He looked at us,” Mr. Nasr said. “He was driving. He stopped the car when he spotted us and he got his gun.”Mr. Nasr said the gunman aimed the weapon across the driver’s side of the car, through the passenger window toward him and his father and began firing.His father was hit twice. On Saturday night, he was in critical condition in Christchurch Hospital.His father, a regular traveler to New Zealand, had arrived three weeks ago for this latest visit and had planned to stay for longer than usual.“He likes it here,” Mr. Nasr said. “He said he would stay for at least one year because of peace, because here he has nothing to worry about, he can just relax.”More might have died at the Linwood Mosque but for the selfless actions of Abdul Aziz, 48, who was praying there with his four sons when he heard gunshots.Rather than fleeing, he ran toward the sound and grabbed the first thing he could find — a credit card machine — and tossed it at the attacker. He then tried to draw the gunman’s attention to himself, and away from other worshipers, by weaving through cars in the parking lot.Mr. Alabi told The Associated Press he believed the death toll would have been far higher without Mr. Aziz’s actions.Mr. Aziz, originally from Afghanistan, said he saw the attacker drop one of his guns and managed to grab it. But when he pulled the trigger, the gun was empty. When the gunman went to his car, presumably to grab more ammunition, Mr. Aziz said he threw the gun at the assailant’s windshield, shattering the glass. The assailant sped away.Perhaps because of where the shooting took place — a country where there are fewer than a dozen murders in some years — many of the survivors found themselves reaching back in time, using words like peace and quiet, calm and safety.Mr. Darwish, 40, said that was how he persuaded his brother, Kamel, to move to New Zealand from Jordan: “I told him it’s the safest country in the world and the best place to raise kids.”“He was here for six months,” he added. “He was going to bring his wife in a month.”Instead, Kamel was missing and presumed dead.Inside the hospital’s relatives room, Mr. Darwish could not contain his frustration. Several relatives had to walk him outside to help him calm down when a local imam he didn’t know stood up and tried to explain that they were trying to wait until all the names had been confirmed and all the bodies identified before sharing information with the group.“We want connectivity,” said the imam, Mustafa Farouk. “So everyone gets closure at the same time.”Others in the crowd demanded an alternative, something quicker “so we can rest!” shouted one man in a far corner.Mr. Farouk explained that some of the victims were unrecognizable because of their wounds. Another imam reminded them that “it’s not a car accident, it’s an international crime scene,” and that officials had to be careful not to get anything wrong.Still, the crowd pleaded: Let people share photos. Let imams who know some of the dead identify them.For a time, the pain brought division. Then the discord was broken when a man shouted “Allahu akbar!” — God is great — and called for patience.A few minutes later, officials announced that they would not wait for all the bodies to be identified. They acceded to the community’s demands and let people send photos to the police and choose imams to identify those they could.The survivors knew this victory would only bring more pain. But at least they were moving toward a resolution, together and alone.Charlotte Graham-McLay contributed reporting.Want more coverage from Australia and New Zealand? Sign up for the weekly Australia Letter from bureau chief Damien Cave, start your day with your local Morning Briefing and join us in our Facebook group.AdvertisementSupported byBy Richard Pйrez-PeсaThe wounded tried to crawl away or lie still, while others ran or crouched behind the dead, but the gunman kept pulling the trigger.He shot fleeing women and girls, and pumped bullet after bullet into piles of motionless men and boys in a house of worship.The man accused of carrying out the worst mass murder in New Zealand’s modern history, one that left 49 people dead and more than 40 others wounded at two mosques in Christchurch, was identified in court documents on Saturday as Brenton Harrison Tarrant, 28. The suspect, who officials said is an Australian citizen, was charged with one count of murder, and more were expected to come.Three other people were detained by the police, though one was released hours later. An 18-year-old local man was charged with “intent to excite hostility or ill-will,” but court officials would not elaborate.The horror was designed specifically for an era that has married social media and racism — a massacre apparently motivated by white extremist hatred, streamed live on Facebook and calculated to go viral.The shooting represented a staggering corruption of a form of communication, used innocently by millions, that promised to draw people together but has also helped pry them apart into warring camps. It also shattered a veneer of civility and security in one of the safest and most highly developed countries in the world.A man at the door to Al Noor mosque on Deans Avenue called out “hello, brother,” just before the approaching killer opened fire with a semiautomatic shotgun. Seconds later, a wounded man, trying to crawl away, was shot again at point-blank range.Within moments, terror and chaos gripped the people gathered at the mosque for Friday Prayer, as they ran, screamed and tried to climb the walls around the building. Parents tried to shield their children, others ducked behind or under parked cars, and at least one nearby resident opened her home to shelter people fleeing the mayhem.The Facebook video, shot from the killer’s helmet-mounted camera, and a 74-page statement that the authorities said was written by the gunman, point to an array of possible role models, from racist mass murderers to Oswald Mosley, the 20th century British fascist.Standard white supremacist and far-right nationalist tropes, like fears of a “white genocide,” are sprinkled throughout the statement. There are also elements of a self-flattering reach for larger meaning: references to centuries-ago battles between Christians and Muslims are scrawled on his guns, and on the video he refers to his slaughter of unarmed people as “the firefight.”But the potential clues in the statement appeared to be as much an exercise in misdirection, provocation and “trolling” as a statement of any ideology, making it hard to separate belief from inside jokes among extremists, deliberate baiting and pointless hate.New safeguards developed by tech companies over the last 18 months were not enough to stop the video and statement from being widely posted, on Facebook, YouTube, Twitter and Instagram. While Facebook and Twitter took down pages thought to be linked to the gunman, the posted content was spread rapidly through other accounts. Some people appeared to be using techniques to evade automated systems that find and delete content.President Trump on Friday described the attack as “a horrible disgraceful thing, horrible act.” But when asked if he saw white nationalism as a rising threat around the world, he said: “I don’t really. I think it’s a small group of people that have very, very serious problems, I guess.”Many Western leaders denounced the attack as an act of terrorism, and made a point of stating their support for Muslims.“Through terror attacks that have taken place on U.K. soil we know only too well the pain that such horrifying attacks can cause,” Prime Minister Theresa May of Britain said. “As New Zealand has stood by us so we stand shoulder to shoulder with them, and with Muslims in New Zealand, here in the U.K. and around the world.”Some leaders of Muslim countries had a more pointed take. On Twitter, President Recep Tayyip Erdogan of Turkey called the attack “the latest example of rising racism and Islamophobia.”Driving his white S.U.V. to the Deans Avenue mosque on Friday afternoon, the gunman played aloud a propaganda song that pays tribute to Radovan Karadzic, the former Bosnian Serb leader who was convicted of genocide and war crimes.Forty-one of the people who died were killed at that mosque. Seven others were killed at the Linwood mosque, about three miles away, and one died at Christchurch Hospital, which lies between the two.New Zealand’s prime minister, Jacinda Ardern, said on Saturday that a total of five firearms, including two semiautomatic weapons, were used in the attacks. New Zealand has fairly lax gun laws, but little gun violence.“Our gun laws will change, now is the time,” Ms. Ardern said, though she did not say what that legislation would look like.Ms. Ardern said the gunman had been planning to kill more people when he was apprehended. “It was absolutely his intention to continue his attack,” she said.Two homemade explosives were found in the suspect’s car, the police have said. The attack put the city of almost 400,000 people on lockdown for hours, as the police searched for more suspects, accomplices or bombs.Ms. Ardern said that while children were among the dead, the victims were “predominantly from the ages of 20 to 60-ish — and a large number of men.”Syed Mazharuddin told the New Zealand Herald that he was in the mosque on Linwood Avenue, and that “there were elderly people sitting there praying and he just started shooting at them.”A live video posted to social media appeared to show the attack at Al Noor Mosque, where 42 people were killed. The clip appeared to have been taken from a camera worn by a gunman.3 The gunman’s video shows him driving away six minutes after the first shot.1 The gunman parked inthe alley next to the mosque,according to the live video.Al NoorMosqueDeans Ave.2 He openedfire at around1:40 p.m.Re-entered mosque and began firingResumed firingoutside the mosqueShot abystanderFirst shot firedParkedExited mosqueGot new gun fromparked carExitedmosqueDroveaway1 min.later234563 The gunman’s video shows him driving away six minutes after the first shot.1 The gunman parked inthe alley next to the mosque,according to the live video.SouthHagleyParkAl NoorMosqueDeans Ave.2 He opened fire ataround 1:40 p.m.Re-enteredmosque andbegan firingResumed firingoutside the mosqueShot abystanderFirst shot firedParkedExited mosqueGot a new gunfrom the parked carLeft mosqueDroveaway1 minute later234563 The gunman’s video shows him driving away six minutes after the first shot.1 The gunman parked inthe alley next to the mosque,according to the live video.Al NoorMosqueDeans Ave.South Hagley Park2 He opened fire ataround 1:40 p.m.Resumed firingoutside the mosqueRe-entered mosqueand began firingShot abystanderFirst shot firedParkedExited mosqueGot a new gunfrom the parked carLeft mosqueDroveaway1 minute later23456By Jin Wu and Allison McCann | Note: Times are local time.Speaking to reporters on Friday, a shaken Mohammad Nazir haltingly tried to describe what he had seen inside the Deans Avenue mosque, where he said there were “lots of people” lying on the blood-soaked green carpet.“I just heard ‘Help! Help!’ ” he said.He ran behind the building and climbed over a wall into a neighboring yard.Mulki Abdiwahab, an 18-year-old university student, was with her mother in the women’s prayer room at the Deans Avenue mosque when the gunfire began.“I’ve never heard a gunshot before,” she told Radio New Zealand. “I thought at first it was somebody was banging on the window.”“My mom grabbed my hand and then we just ran outside and everyone was in chaos, just running for their lives,” she said.They left behind their shoes, purses and a laptop, and did not stop running until a woman who lives down the street waved them into her house, she said.Later, they learned that her father, who like many victims was in the men’s prayer room, had been wounded.The gunman’s video shows him reloading repeatedly, snapping new ammunition magazines into his assault shotgun. Then he returned to his vehicle, got another gun — a semiautomatic assault rifle — went back into the building and resumed shooting.When he left for good, he fired down the sidewalk in both directions, and down the alleyway where he had parked. He walked up to a wounded woman dressed in black who lay on the pavement crying “help me, help me,” and shot her twice more.He left about six minutes after he had arrived. As he began to drive away, he fired into parked cars with a pump-action shotgun before speeding off.Officials did not make clear whether the Linwood Avenue attack took place before or after the Deans Avenue massacre, or if the same person committed both. The first calls to the police came at about 1:40 p.m.Yama al Nabi was running late to meet his father at the Deans Avenue mosque, when he came on the nightmarish scene of wailing and bleeding people, illuminated by the flashing lights of police cars.He asked survivors about his father, Dawoud Nabi, 65, a native of Afghanistan who had lived in New Zealand since 1977.“Someone said he jumped the fence and said he’s safe,” he told The New York Times. “Then I waited and waited and my daughter called and said he’s dead.”On Saturday morning, his hands shaking, he showed reporters a photo on his phone of his father and his daughter.“Dad was the leader of the Afghan community and welcomed everyone,” he said.He had gone to the courthouse where the accused gunman would appear. “Just want to see his face,” he said.Members of Bangladesh’s national cricket team, who were in Christchurch for a match, were also saved by tardiness, after a news conference delayed their walk to the Deans Avenue mosque.Mohammad Isam, an ESPN reporter covering the team, reported on an ESPN website that at 1:52 he got a terrified call from Tamim Iqbal Khan, one of the Bangladesh cricketers.“There’s shooting here, please save us,” Mr. Khan said, according to Mr. Isam.“I first think that he is playing a prank but he hangs up and calls again — this time, his voice starts to crack,” Mr. Isam wrote. “He says that I should call the police as there’s a shooting going on inside the mosque where they are about to enter.”Mr. Khan wrote on Twitter: “Entire team got saved from active shooters.”Another player, Mushfiqur Rahim, tweeted “we r extremely lucky … never want to see this things happen again … pray for us.”An earlier version of this article transposed the first and second guns used by the suspect in the Al Noor mosque shooting. The first was a semiautomatic shotgun, not a rifle. The second was a semiautomatic rifle, not a shotgun.Reporting was contributed by Jamie Tarabay in Christchurch and Megan Specia in New York.OpinionWajahat AliAdvertisementSupported byBy Matthew Haag and Karen ZraickIn the days after Jazmine Barnes, 7, was fatally shot inside a moving car near a Walmart outside Houston on Sunday morning, the police have released just one concrete clue about her killer: an image of a red pickup truck recorded by a surveillance camera near the scene of the shooting.The authorities believe that the gunman, described as a man in his 30s or 40s with a beard and wearing a hooded sweatshirt, was driving the truck. The Harris County Sheriff’s Office believes the gunman fired at random into the car in which Jazmine was riding with her mother and three sisters, a 6-year-old and two teenagers. A bullet struck Jazmine in the head, her mother said.The police said Wednesday that they still had not identified the gunman. But the case has drawn the attention of national civil rights activists and fueled speculation that the shooting was racially motivated. The gunman is white, the police said, and Jazmine was black.At a news conference on Wednesday afternoon, Harris County Sheriff Ed Gonzalez said officers were pursuing a number of tips they had received, and taking a fresh look at a similar — and still unsolved — shooting that took place nearby in 2017. The department was also increasing patrols amid concerns that the gunman could strike again.“We’re not going to stop until we solve this case,” Sheriff Gonzalez said.Jazmine’s mother, LaPorsha Washington, and her sisters met with Harris County investigators on Wednesday morning to help them create a composite sketch of the gunman, said Lee Merritt, a lawyer for the family. The sheriff’s office released that sketch on Thursday.In another effort to garner the public’s help, Mr. Merritt and Shaun King, a prominent racial justice activist and a columnist at The Intercept, have offered a $100,000 reward for information leading to the gunman’s arrest. The amount raised was a combination of their own money, according to a spokeswoman for Mr. Merritt, and donations they had received.On Thursday, DeAndre Hopkins, a wide receiver on the Houston Texans, said that he would donate his paycheck from the team’s playoff game this weekend to help pay for Jazmine’s funeral. Mr. Hopkins will receive $29,000 for the game, which is determined by the N.F.L.’s current collective bargaining agreement.“When I see Jazmine Barnes’ face, I see my own daughter,” Mr. Hopkins wrote on Twitter.Since the reward was announced, Mr. Merritt said he had received several tips from people who said they had seen the same red pickup truck in the area before Jazmine was killed. One person reported seeing a man in a red pickup truck break into a parked car and steal a gun, Mr. Merritt said.He said he had forwarded those tips to detectives at the Harris County Sheriff’s Office.“We are getting a lot of tips now,” Mr. Merritt said in an interview. “The word is out there.”Sheriff Gonzalez said he could not confirm details of the tips the police were investigating. But he added that the department appreciated the public’s help and would methodically vet all of the information it was receiving.Besides those possible leads, Mr. Merritt said there might be a connection between Jazmine’s killing and the shooting of two people nearby a year and a half earlier. On Aug. 30, 2017, a white man in a pickup truck opened fire with an AR-15-style rifle at a car carrying A’Vonta Williams and his then-girlfriend’s family, according to the sheriff’s office and Mr. Williams’s mother.No one was killed but a bullet traveled through Mr. Williams’s legs, shattering both of them, his mother, Kisshima Williams, said in an interview on Wednesday. Another bullet was lodged in the stomach of his then-girlfriend’s grandmother.After the sheriff’s office faced criticism for not aggressively investigating the shooting, which occurred in the chaotic days after Hurricane Harvey made landfall, the authorities announced a renewed effort to identify the gunman. But no one has been arrested.Sheriff Gonzalez said that investigators were looking into the 2017 case once again “to see if we may have missed anything.” He added that the previous shooting occurred about six miles from the site of the more recent attack, though the victim eventually drove to the area where the more recent one took place.Ms. Williams said that another son read about Jazmine’s killing on Sunday and immediately called her to point out the similarities between the two cases.“It has to be the same person,” Ms. Williams said. “It’s too similar.”She said that A’Vonta, who is now 22, did not want to talk about the shooting but that he also believed the cases were connected.“I talked to him last night, and it’s rough for him because he’s a young man,” she said. “My son was bedridden for four months.”AdvertisementSupported byBy ReutersCANBERRA — Australia will fine social media companies up to 10 percent of their annual global turnover and imprison executives for up to three years if violent content is not removed "expeditiously" under a new law passed by the country's parliament on Thursday.The new law is in response to a lone gunman attack on two mosques in Christchurch on March 15, killing 50 people as they attended Friday prayers.The gunman broadcasted his attack live on Facebook and it was widely shared for over an hour before being removed, a timeframe Australian Prime Minister Scott Morrison described as unacceptable.Australian Brenton Tarrant, 28, a suspected white supremacist, has been charged with one murder following the attack and was remanded without a plea. He is due back in court on April 5, when police said he was likely to face more charges.It is now an offense in Australia for companies, such as Facebook Inc and Alphabet's Google, which owns YouTube, not to remove any videos or photographs that show murder, torture or rape without delay. Companies must also inform Australian police within a "reasonable" timeframe."It is important that we make a very clear statement to social media companies that we expect their behavior to change," Mitch Fifield, Australia's minister for communications and the arts, told reporters in Canberra.Juries will decide whether companies have complied with the timetable."We have zero tolerance for terrorist content on our platforms," said a spokesperson for Google in an emailed statement."We are committed to leading the way in developing new technologies and standards for identifying and removing terrorist content."A spokeswoman for Facebook was not immediately able for comment.Facebook said last week it was exploring restrictions on who can access their live video-streaming service, depending on factors such as previous violations of the site's community standards.Australia's opposition Labor party backed the legislation, but said it will consult with the technology industry over possible amendments if it wins power at an election due in May. Australia's parliament will rise until after the election. The newly elected lawmakers will not sit until at least July.Critics of the legislation said the government moved too quickly, without proper consultation and consideration.AdvertisementSupported byBy ReutersSYDNEY — The Australian man accused of killing 50 Muslim worshippers in gun attacks on two mosques in Christchurch will face 50 murder charges and 39 attempted murder charges, New Zealand police said on Thursday."Other charges are still under consideration," police said in a statement.Australian Brenton Tarrant, 28, a suspected white supremacist, was previously charged with only one murder following the attack and has been remanded without a plea.AdvertisementSupported byBy The Associated PressWELLINGTON, New Zealand — New Zealand lawmakers on Tuesday voted overwhelmingly in favor of new gun restrictions during the first stage of a bill they hope to rush into law by the end of next week.The bill would ban the types of weapons a gunman used to kill 50 people at two mosques last month.The bill was backed by both liberals and conservatives, with only a single lawmaker from the 120 that sit in Parliament voting against it. The vote was the first of three that lawmakers must pass before the bill becomes law.Police Minister Stuart Nash said far too many people have access to dangerous guns and lawmakers were driven by the need to ensure public safety."We are also driven by the memory of 50 men, women and children who were taken from their loved ones on the 15th of March," Nash said. "Their memory is our responsibility. We don't ever want to see an attack like this in our country again. We are compelled to act quickly."Seemingly drawing a distinction with the U.S., where gun possession is constitutionally protected, Nash said that in New Zealand, gun ownership remains a privilege and not a right.Conservative lawmaker David Seymour voted against the bill, saying it was too rushed."Doing it in nine days before politicians go on their Easter break is starting to look more like political theater than public safety," he said.But Seymour was so busy explaining to reporters his reasons for opposing the bill that he missed a procedural vote in which he could have tried to slow its passage.Many New Zealanders were shocked at the firepower the gunman was able to legally obtain and favor the legislative changes.Some are opposed. More than 14,000 have signed a petition filed in Parliament which says the law changes are "unjust" for law-abiding citizens and are being driven by emotions.AdvertisementSupported byBy Damien CaveCHRISTCHURCH, New Zealand — Hoping to limit the spread of hateful ideas attributed to the suspect accused of the Christchurch killings, New Zealand classified his so-called manifesto as “objectionable” on Saturday, making it a crime to possess or distribute it anywhere in the country.“People who have downloaded this document, or printed it, should destroy any copies,” said David Shanks, the chief censor in New Zealand’s Department of Internal Affairs.“There is an important distinction to be made between ‘hate speech,’ which may be rejected by many right-thinking people but which is legal to express, and this type of publication, which is deliberately constructed to inspire further murder and terrorism,” Mr. Shanks said. “It crosses the line.”The ruling is part of a wider strategy by Prime Minister Jacinda Ardern to undermine the attempts by the suspect, Brenton Harrison Tarrant, to gain global notoriety. She has pledged never to utter his name publicly, and to press platforms like Facebook to deny access worldwide to the manifesto, which was published just before the slaughter of 50 people in two mosques, as well as the video the gunman apparently livestreamed of part of the attacks.Prosecutors have also gone after people who shared that video.As of Thursday, at least two people had been charged with sharing the video via social media, under a law that forbids dissemination or possession of material depicting extreme violence and terrorism.Others could face related charges in connection with publicizing the terrorist attack, under a human rights law that forbids incitement of racial disharmony.These cases are possible because while freedom of expression is a legal right in New Zealand, the parameters are more restrictive than the First Amendment guarantees in the United States. And Mr. Shanks, the country’s chief official in charge of determining what is protected speech and what is not, made clear that the gunman’s white nationalist diatribe was off-limits.“It promotes, encourages and justifies acts of murder and terrorist violence against identified groups of people,” Mr. Shanks said. “It identifies specific places for potential attack in New Zealand, and refers to the means by which other types of attack may be carried out. It contains justifications for acts of tremendous cruelty, such as the deliberate killing of children.”AdvertisementSupported byBy ReutersWELLINGTON — New Zealand police deployed specialist armed officers to a suburb in West Auckland on Wednesday morning after responding to reports that a shot may have been fired. "Police are making enquiries ... The Armed Offenders Squad has been deployed to the area as a precaution," a police spokesman told Reuters by phone, adding that major roads in the area had been cordoned off. Local media reported schools and preschools in the area were in lockdown.AdvertisementSupported byBy The Associated PressSEATTLE — Longtime schoolteacher Deborah Judd has grown accustomed to active-shooter drills in her second-grade classroom. She was less prepared to see a gunman in the street on her way home.She became the first to be shot by a man as he opened fire on cars in a Seattle neighborhood, apparently at random, leaving two people dead and wounding a bus driver who was praised for getting the passengers to safety."He walked straight out in the middle of the road and he shot me, then he shot me again," Judd, 56, told reporters from her hospital bed Thursday. "I guess I always thought something like that would happen in school because we talk so much about school shootings."But I never thought I'd be driving home in my car and someone would step out in the street and shoot me," she said.Judd was headed home to suburban Snohomish on Wednesday after a meeting at Laurelhurst Elementary School, "zipping along, I think I was eating Cheez-Its," she said.Then she saw the gunman. He fired into her windshield as she got close and fired again after the car came to a stop on a road that follows a ridge above Lake Washington in residential northeast Seattle.Bullets lodged in her arm, shoulder and lung. Judd said she slumped over the emergency brake of her car and stayed still — wondering why no one was helping her — until the shooting stopped.The gunman next fired into a King County Metro bus, striking the driver, and approached a car that had slowed down and shot again, killing the 50-year-old man behind the wheel and fleeing in his car as officers arrived, authorities said.Police say suspect Tad Michael Norman, 33, then crashed head-on into another vehicle, killing the 70-year-old man driving. Norman was taken into custody after a brief standoff, police said.Investigators offered no information about a potential motive. Norman, who lives near the shooting scene, was jailed on suspicion of homicide, assault and robbery. He was expected to make his first court appearance Friday, and it was not clear if he had obtained a lawyer who could speak on his behalf.Norman did not appear to have any significant criminal history in Washington state. He was a vendor with Microsoft and his contract ended last year, a company representative said.The bus driver, Eric Stark, 53, was shot in the torso but still managed to drive his passengers to safety, authorities said. Seattle Mayor Jenny Durkan said he "saved lives and took action even after being harmed."Stark, recovering in a hospital Thursday, told ABC's "Good Morning America" that "it's what any other driver would be able to do if they were physically able.""I ducked down really quick for some cover, did like a two-second assessment of my injuries and figured, 'Well, I can breathe, I can think, I can see, and I can talk,'" Stark said. "So for me, that was enough to go, 'OK, we're getting out of here. I've gotta get these people out of here.'"None of the passengers aboard the bus got hurt, King County Metro said.John Barrett told Seattle news station KOMO-TV that he was in his garage when he heard what sounded like firecrackers. Barrett went outside and saw a man pointing a gun at people as he walked down a street, "firing at anything just without any regard."AdvertisementtranscriptHosted by Michael Barbaro, produced by Annie Brown, Paige Cowett, Michael Simon Johnson and Jonathan Wolfe, and edited by Lisa TobinOne of the deadliest mass shootings in the country’s history bore the stamp of online extremism.Monday, March 18th, 2019michael barbaroFrom The New York Times, I’m Michael Barbaro. This is “The Daily.” Today: The death toll from a mass shooting targeting Muslims in New Zealand rose from 49 to 50 over the weekend, after officials found another body at the Al Noor Mosque, where most of the deaths occurred. Kevin Roose on why this attack was made by and for the internet. It’s Monday, March 18.archived recording 1Farid, would you mind just telling us one more time of what happened in the mosque?archived recording (farid ahmed)When shooting started, it started from the hallway. So I could hear, so [IMITATING GUNFIRE] Then magazine is finished. Then he refill again and came back again.archived recording 2I saw all the plastering coming down from the wall and the ceiling.archived recording 3O.K.archived recording 4And that was when I knew it was from the gun shot. So immediately —archived recording 5When he was shooting at me — and there’s a fence here. He was shooting at me. I ducked here and I come here. And I find the gun somewhere here and a dead body here as well.archived recording 6I feel now — I repeated the story a lot. But this is a good idea to say that —michael barbaroOver the weekend, through dozens of interviews with survivors, a story began to emerge of what happened on Friday inside the mosques in Christchurch.archived recording 1Was that your regular mosque or were you visiting that mosque?archived recording (farid ahmed)Regular mosque. Yeah.michael barbaroThe shooting began at the Al Noor Mosque, where Farid Ahmed and his wife, Husna, who had moved to New Zealand from Bangladesh, were attending afternoon prayer.archived recording (farid ahmed)The ladies’ room was on the right-hand side. So all the ladies were there. And my wife is always a leading person for ladies. She had a philosophy. She always used to tell me, I don’t want to hold any position. And I want to prove that you don’t need to have any position to help people. She was like a magnet. And exactly the same thing happened. The shooting started. She started instructing several ladies and children to get out. And she was screaming, Come this way, hurry up,” this and that. You know, she was doing all these things. And then she took many children and ladies into a safe garden. Then she was coming back, checking about me, because I was in the wheelchair.archived recordingDo you mind me asking why you’re in a wheelchair?archived recording (farid ahmed)I was run over by a car. He was the drunk driver. And it was 1998 and it happened.archived recordingI’m sorry.archived recording (farid ahmed)It’s O.K.archived recordingSo she went out of the mosque and then she came back in?archived recording (farid ahmed)Yeah. She was coming back. And once she was approaching the gate, then she was shot.archived recordingShe came back into to fetch you?archived recording (farid ahmed)Yes. Yes.michael barbaroFarid learned hours later that Husna was one of the 42 people police say were killed at the mosque.archived recording (farid ahmed)So she was busy with saving lives, you know, forgetting about herself. And that’s what she is. She always has been like this.michael barbaroSix minutes after firing the first shot, and as police raced toward Al Noor Mosque, the shooter drove to a second mosque, the Linwood Mosque, four miles east.damien caveAnd tell me — I’m sorry, what was your name?abdul azizAbdul Aziz.damien caveAnd the mosque that you go to, is it mixed, Pakistani? I mean, that mosque — who was there that day?abdul azizThat mosque, we got from every race, from Malaysia, from Philippines, from Afghanistan, from every sort of country.michael barbaroMy colleague Damien Cave spoke with Abdul Aziz, who was praying at the Linwood Mosque with his four sons when he heard gunshots. Aziz ran toward the shots, grabbing the first thing he could find, a credit card machine, which he flung at the attacker. The shooter dropped a gun, and Aziz picked it up.abdul azizAnd I pick up the gun and I checked that it had no bullets. And I was screaming to the guy, “Come here! I’m here.” I just wanted to put more focus on me than go inside the masjid. But unfortunately he just got himself to the masjid, and I heard more shooting sound. And I see the shooting inside the masjid.michael barbaroMoments later, when the gunman went to his car to retrieve more weapons, Aziz followed him.abdul azizThis guy tried to get more gun from his car. When he see me, I’m chasing with the gun. He sat on his car. And I just got that gun and throw in his window like an arrow and blast his window. And he thought I probably shot him or something. And the guns come back and just, he drives off.michael barbaroAziz used the gun to shatter the gunman’s car window, which many witnesses believe is what prompted him to speed away rather than re-enter the mosque and kill more people.abdul azizAny brother would do the same thing. So if you was there, you would do the same thing.damien caveHave you — can I ask you —michael barbaroMinutes later, video shows the suspect being pulled by police from his car two and a half miles down the road, where two more guns and homemade explosives were also found.archived recording (jacinda ardern)I want to speak specifically about the firearms used in this terrorist act. They were two semi-automatic weapons and two shotguns.michael barbaroOn Sunday, New Zealand’s prime minister, Jacinda Ardern, said that the suspect, an Australian citizen, would be tried in New Zealand, and that her government would meet today to discuss the country’s gun laws.archived recording (jacinda ardern)I can tell you one thing right now. Our gun laws will change.michael barbaroFunerals for all 50 victims are expected to be held in the coming days.archived recording (jacinda ardern)As the police commissioner confirmed this morning, 50 people have been killed and 34 people remain in Christchurch Hospital, 12 of them in the intensive care unit in critical condition. A 4-year-old girl remains in critical condition at Starship Hospital in Auckland.michael barbaroIslamic burial rituals typically require bodies to be buried as soon as possible, and usually within 24 hours. But New Zealand authorities say that the process of identifying the victims and returning them to their families could take several more days.archived recording (jacinda ardern)It is the expectation that all bodies will be returned to families by Wednesday. I want to finish by saying that while the nation grapples with a form of grief and anger that we have not experienced before, we are seeking answers.michael barbaroKevin, I want to talk to you about the moments before this mass shooting began. What do you know about those?kevin rooseWell, what we know comes from a video that was live-streamed on Facebook while this was all happening by the gunman. He taped himself in the car on his way over to the mosque, listening to music, talking. And right before he gets out of the car and goes into the mosque, he pauses and says, “Remember, lads, subscribe to PewDiePie.” And when I heard that, I just, like, I knew, oh, this is something different than we’re used to.michael barbaroWhat do you mean? What is PewDiePie, and why does that reference matter?kevin rooseSo PewDiePie is this really popular YouTube personality. He has the most subscribers of anyone on YouTube. Some people think he’s offensive. Some people really like him. He’s got this whole fan base. And a few months ago, his fans started sort of spamming this phrase, “subscribe to PewDiePie,” in an attempt to kind of keep him from being eclipsed by another account that was going to have more followers than him.michael barbaroO.K.kevin rooseSo it sort of became this competition, and then it became this joke. And now “subscribe to PewDiePie” is just kind of like a thing that people say on certain parts of the internet. It’s just kind of like a signifier, like, I understand the internet, you understand the internet. This is how we’re going to signal to each other that we understand the internet.michael barbaroO.K. And this is what he’s signaling in saying that?kevin rooseYeah. So I have that in my head. And then I see all these other signs that something is weirdly kind of internet-y about all of this. Like, there’s this post on 8chan, which is kind of like a scummy message board that lots of extremists and weirdos go on. And in the post, the gunman links to the Facebook stream before it happens.michael barbaroThe Facebook stream that he will record of the massacre itself.kevin rooseExactly. And then he pastes a bunch of links to copies of his manifesto. He has a 74-page manifesto that he wrote. And some of this stuff was fairly standard hard-right ideology, very fascist, very white nationalist. Muslims are kind of like the primary target for white nationalists around the world, calling them invaders, saying they’re taking over. You know, this is a sort of classic white nationalist trope. And then there was all this kind of meta-humor, saying that he was radicalized by video games, which is another thing that internet extremists love to sort of troll the media with. Like, you know, he posted previews of his gun on Twitter. The whole thing just kind of felt like it just set this shooting up as, like, almost an internet performance, like it was native to the internet, and it was born out of and aimed into this culture of extremely concentrated internet radicalism.michael barbaroBut underneath it all is white nationalism, white supremacy, whatever you want to call it, a kind of racism that has always existed. So why does the internet’s role in this feel especially different to you?kevin rooseI want to make clear that this is not just a tech story, right. There’s a real core of anti-Muslim violence here, Islamophobia, far-right ideology. That’s all very, very important, and we should focus there. But I think there’s this other piece that we really need to start grappling with as a society, which is that there’s an entire generation of people who have been exposed to radical extremist politics online, who have been fed a steady diet of this stuff. It’s transformed by the tools that the internet provides. So I’ve talked to a lot of white nationalists, unfortunately. And when I asked them how they got into this, a lot of them will say, I found a couple of videos on YouTube. And then I found some more videos on YouTube, and it kind of started opening my eyes to this ideology. And pretty soon, you’re a white nationalist. And that’s different from, historically, how extremism has been born. I mean —michael barbaroWhat do you mean?kevin rooseYou know, if you go to the library and you take out a book about World War II, right as you’re about to finish it, the librarian doesn’t say, here, here’s a copy of “Mein Kampf.” You might like this. There’s not this kind of algorithmic nudge toward the extremes that really exists on social media and has a demonstrated effect on people.michael barbaroWalk me through this algorithmic nudge. I want to make sure I understand what you’re referring to.kevin rooseThis is pretty specific to YouTube, but that’s where a lot of this stuff happens. So on YouTube there’s this recommendations bar. And after a video plays, another one follows it. And historically, the way that this algorithm that chose which video came next worked is it would try to keep you on the site for as long as possible, try to maximize the number of videos you watch, the amount of time you spent, which would maximize the ad revenue. Right. It would maximize lots of things. And so it turned out that what kept people on the site for longer and longer periods of time was gradually moving them toward more extreme content. You start at a video about spaceships, and you’d end on something that was questioning whether the moon landing was a hoax. Or you’d start at a video about some piece of U.S. history and, you know, five videos later you’re at kind of a 9/11 conspiracy theory video. Just these kind of gradual tugs toward the stuff that the algorithm decides is going to keep you hooked. And in a lot of cases, that means making it a little more extreme.michael barbaroAnd what’s the white nationalist version of this nudge?kevin rooseThere’s a ton of white nationalism on YouTube. YouTube, from the conversations I’ve had with people in this movement, is sort of central to how these ideas spread. Like, you start watching some videos about politics. Maybe they’re about Trump. Then you start watching some videos by sort of more fringey, kind of far-right characters, and all of a sudden you are watching someone’s video who is espousing open white nationalism. And you’re not exactly sure how you got there, but you keep watching. And for some percentage of people, you internalize that.michael barbaroSo it’s a kind of computer-driven on-ramp or onboarding.kevin rooseYeah. And this has been studied. Like, this is a well-documented phenomenon, and YouTube has done some things to try to fix the algorithm and make it so that it’s not sending you down these rabbit holes. But it’s still a pretty observable effect.michael barbaroAnd what’s your understanding of why these platforms didn’t act years ago to police, to delete these hate-filled videos, this content that through these algorithmic nudges you described directs people further and further towards extremism?kevin rooseThey had no reason to. I mean, they were making a lot of money. They saw their responsibility as providing a platform for free speech. They were very hesitant to kind of seem like they were censoring certain political views. They were committed to free speech. And I think that’s kind of the original sin that’s baked into all of this. It’s like, part of how this was born is this idea that we just provide the platform, and if people signal to us that they like something, we’ll show them more of it. And maybe we’ll show them something that pushes the envelope a little bit more. And we’re not optimizing for truth. We’re not optimizing for things that we think are healthy for people. We’re just giving them what they want. And they’re trying to change that now, some of them. There’s a reckoning now where these platforms have come to understand that this is the role that they’ve played and that they’re trying to correct it. But there’s a lot of people who have already been sucked up into this world, who have been radicalized, and who may not be coming back. It’s going to be very, very tricky to slow the thing that has been set into motion. And I don’t even know if it’s possible.michael barbaroAt this point.kevin rooseYeah. These platforms played a pivotal role, have played, are playing a pivotal role in how these extremist groups gather momentum and share their ideas and coalesce into real movements and grow. And, like, that’s the part that I don’t think they’ve completely reckoned with, and I don’t think we’ve completely reckoned with. I think we’re still sort of coming to terms with the fact that there’s this pipeline for extremism. And we know how it runs. We know where it happens. We know who’s involved. And we know that sometimes it has these devastating, tragic consequences. What I’ve been thinking is just how inevitable this feels.michael barbaroWhat do you mean?kevin rooseI’ve been watching these people in these kind of dark corners of the internet multiplying and hardening and becoming more extreme, and, like, it was inevitable. This is the nightmare. Right? This is the worst possible version of something that could happen and be broadcast on the internet. And it’s not getting better. And it’s going to be with us for a long time.michael barbaroBut it also strikes me that in a way, and in a pretty awful way, this gunman and the way he has approached this massacre is kind of reflecting back how the internet functions. Because I’m thinking about him making a video of this attack, which, in a sense, means he’s making content that feeds that loop that we’re discussing, perhaps feeds this algorithm that possibly fed him — that he’s basically putting something back into the system.kevin rooseYeah. And I saw this happening on these platforms, like, in real time. So —michael barbaroYou mean on Friday?kevin rooseYeah. So if you went onto 8chan, which is the website where all the stuff was posted, the comments below this post were all about, let’s save these videos so that we can re-upload them somewhere else —michael barbaroWow.kevin roose— in case 8chan gets taken down. Let’s spread this. Let’s seed this all over the internet. I mean, there’s no doubt in my mind that this guy was very aware of how his video and his manifesto would kind of filter through the internet and get refracted and picked up and analyzed. This was a very deliberate act, not only of murder and violence, but also of media creation. I mean, this was, in a way, engineered for internet virality.michael barbaroAnd then it did go viral.kevin rooseYes. Twitter and Facebook and YouTube, all the platforms, tried to take down the video as soon as it popped up, but it just kept popping back up. It’s very hard to contain. So it’s still out there. I mean, yeah, I’m looking at, right now, something posted, you know, six hours ago. It’s the video of the shooting, and it’s still up. And I don’t think it’ll ever fully disappear.michael barbaroKevin, thank you very much.kevin rooseThank you.Listen and subscribe to our podcast from your mobile device: Via Apple Podcasts | Via RadioPublic | Via StitcherA gunman opened fire at two mosques in Christchurch, New Zealand, killing at least 50 people. The massacre was partly streamed online. We look at why the attack was, in some ways, made by and for the internet.[For an exclusive look at how the biggest stories on “The Daily” podcast come together, subscribe to our newsletter. Read the latest edition here.]On today’s episode:Kevin Roose, who writes about technology for The New York Times.Background reading:New Zealand grappled with grief and horror in the aftermath of the shooting. A 28-year-old man from Australia has been charged with murder.“In some ways, it felt like a first — an internet-native mass shooting, conceived and produced entirely within the irony-soaked discourse of modern extremism.” Read Kevin Roose’s column about the imprint of internet culture on the attack.New Zealand’s government is diving into a discussion of gun control. “Our gun laws will change — now is the time,” Prime Minister Jacinda Arden said after the shooting. Officials will also open an inquiry on what was known about the gunman before the massacre.Tune in, and tell us what you think. Email us at thedaily@nytimes.com. Follow Michael Barbaro on Twitter: @mikiebarb. And if you’re interested in advertising with “The Daily,” write to us at thedaily-ads@nytimes.com.Kevin Roose contributed reporting.AdvertisementSupported byBy The Associated PressSEATTLE — The Latest on a multiple shooting spree and carjacking in Seattle that left two people dead and two injured (all times local):1:35 p.m.A woman shot in an apparent random Seattle shooting spree and a carjacking that left two people dead is a teacher who says she thought a shooting might be possible at school but never while she was driving.Second-grade teacher Deborah Judd was driving home Wednesday when she says someone stepped out into the street and shot her three times.She spoke from her hospital bed Thursday and says the bullets went into her arm, shoulder and lungs but didn't hit anything vital.Jail records show the man arrested in connection with the incident is Tad Michael Norman.Police say the suspect shot Judd and bus driver Eric Stark, then shot and killed another man in a carjacking and killed another man in a crash.___10:45 a.m.Jail records have identified the man they arrested in an apparently random spree of shootings and a carjacking that left two people dead as Tad Michael Norman. Two people were also injured.King County Jail records show the 33-year-old Norman was booked on investigation of homicide, robbery and assault Thursday after his release from a hospital where for treatment of what were characterized as minor injuries.Police have said the suspect left his home Wednesday afternoon, shot and wounded a woman driving a car and a male bus driver, then shot and killed another man in a carjacking and got in a head-on crash with another vehicle, killing the man who was driving the other car.It was not immediately clear if Norman has an attorney.— This item corrects that jail records, not police, identified Norman.___8:30 a.m.A Seattle bus driver hailed as a hero for steering the bus away from a gunman who opened fire on him and his passengers says he was just doing his job and is "glad to be alive."Eric Stark was hit in the torso Wednesday afternoon by a bullet but authorities say he still managed to turn the bus around and drive away.Officials say the gunman who opened fire on the bus while walking in a neighborhood Wednesday then opened fire on a motorist, killing him.Stark told ABC's "Good Morning America" he did what "any other driver would be able to do if they were physically able."AdvertisementSupported byBy David Montgomery and Julia JacobsHOUSTON — Relatives of Jazmine Barnes, the 7-year-old Texas girl who was fatally shot inside a moving car, grieved on Saturday at an emotionally charged rally not far from where the gunman opened fire on a family that was out on a morning coffee run.Nearly 1,000 people gathered to honor Jazmine and to urge law enforcement to find the man who the police said attacked on Dec. 30 without provocation.Jazmine, who was black, was in the car with her mother and three sisters when a white man pulled his red pickup truck beside them and began shooting, the police said. A bullet struck Jazmine in the head and she died at the scene, the police said. The gunman was described as a man in his 30s or 40s wearing a hooded sweatshirt.“We’re going to find him no matter what corner we have to turn,” said LaPorsha Washington, Jazmine’s mother, who was driving at the time of the attack. “We’re going to find you.”In the crowd, a call-and-response chant demanded “Justice for Jazmine.” They embraced one another. A pastor led them in prayer.Ms. Washington told The Houston Chronicle that she believed the attack was racially motivated, and the case has drawn attention from civil rights activists across the country.“I have no tint on my windows or anything so you can see there is a mother — a black mother — with daughters, beautiful children,” Ms. Washington told CNN. “You took my baby from me and you have no care in the world.”Sheriff Ed Gonzalez of Harris County, Tex., said at a news conference this week that it was too early for investigators to speculate about the gunman’s motive because he had not yet been identified.Community members drew a connection to a shooting in August 2017, which remains unsolved.In that episode, a white man in a pickup opened fire with an AR-15-style rifle at a car carrying A’Vonta Williams, who is black, and his girlfriend’s family, according to the sheriff’s office and Mr. Williams’s mother. No one was killed but both of Mr. Williams’s legs were shattered by a bullet, said his mother, Kisshima Williams. The girlfriend’s grandmother was also injured.Sheriff Gonzalez said the police were taking a fresh look at that case for any possible links to the recent attack. The shootings occurred about six miles apart, he said.Lee Merritt, a Philadelphia-based lawyer representing Jazmine’s family, said on Saturday he believed the shooting had the markings of a hate crime, in part because of the “randomness and unprovoked nature” of the attack.United States Representative Sheila Jackson Lee, a Democrat whose district includes parts of Houston, said the racial dynamics of the case were apparent. “Do not be afraid to call this what it seems to be: a hate crime,” she told the crowd, demanding an investigation by the Justice Department.After Jazmine’s killing, the public mobilized to help the family. Mr. Merritt and Shaun King, a prominent racial justice activist and a columnist at The Intercept, have offered a $100,000 reward for information leading to the gunman’s arrest. DeAndre Hopkins, a wide receiver for the Houston Texans, pledged to donate his paycheck from this weekend’s playoff game, which amounts to $29,000, to help pay for Jazmine’s funeral.At the rally on Saturday, supporters clutched banners and artwork dedicated to Jazmine, who was in second grade at a Houston-area school.“No peace, no justice,” the crowd chanted. Many parents said the shooting put them in fear of their own lives and those of their children.The site of the rally, a Walmart parking lot, was about a half-mile from where the attack took place, said Lt. Eric Batton of the Harris County Sheriff’s Office. The store provided the police with the first clue about the gunman’s identity: images of his pickup truck captured by video surveillance.But aside from a sketch of the gunman, his identity remains unknown. At the rally, Sheriff Gonzalez urged the crowd to keep reporting possible leads to police. “We’re always just one phone call away from being able to break this case,” he said.Kim Green, a 44-year-old mother of two boys, said she drove more than 50 miles with her 12-year-old son, Khayman Clarkson, to attend the rally.She clutched a banner reading “Justice” and “Jazmine” and a drawing of a princess she planned to give the family.“I have two black boys living in the middle of all these senseless killings,” she said. “I’m definitely worried about my own children. It’s too close to home.”AdvertisementSupported byBy Damien CaveCHRISTCHURCH, New Zealand — Brenton Harrison Tarrant, the Australian man accused of killing 50 people last month at two mosques in Christchurch, New Zealand, appeared in court on Friday via video link from prison to face dozens of additional charges.With the relatives of several victims watching in a Christchurch courtroom — along with wounded survivors, including two men in wheelchairs — Mr. Tarrant was officially charged with 50 counts of murder and 39 charges of attempted murder, as prosecutors added to the solo charge they laid against him in March.Appearing onscreen from Auckland, handcuffed and wearing a gray shirt, Mr. Tarrant sat still and said nothing.Judge Cameron Mander of the Christchurch High Court moved quickly through the hearing, the first of several in what could be a process lasting more than a year.He ordered a pair of health assessments for Mr. Tarrant, 28, with the results due at his next appearance, scheduled for June 14. A plea, the judge said, would follow the results of the assessments.If Mr. Tarrant is found guilty, he could be sentenced to life in prison without parole. No one in New Zealand has ever received that sentence, but judges have the right to impose it for particularly heinous murders.New Zealand does not have the death penalty.Judge Mander also approved several suppression orders that will prevent certain details of the proceedings from being reported by the news media.The 39 names of victims linked to the attempted murder charges cannot be published, the judge said, to protect them from “undue hardship.” Images of Mr. Tarrant cannot be published without his face being pixelated; no photos, video or audio can be recorded in court.International news outlets not subject to New Zealand jurisdiction could be barred from Mr. Tarrant’s trial if they do not comply, Judge Mander said.Mr. Tarrant had previously said he planned to represent himself, but two defense lawyers from Auckland acted on his behalf — Shane Tait and a colleague, Jonathan Hudson.In a statement on Thursday, Mr. Tait said the right to consult a lawyer, along with the right to a fair trial, were protected under New Zealand law. He said he would not comment further on the case or his role.Mr. Tarrant’s appearance took place as the New Zealand government has moved quickly to ban military-style weapons and as officials continue to investigate how the gunman was able to carry out the attacks.The gunman is believed to have posted a hate-filled manifesto online shortly before carrying out the killings, which were then livestreamed on Facebook.On Thursday, over the objections of technology companies, Australia passed a law requiring social media platforms to quickly remove “abhorrent violent material.” New Zealand is also considering putting restrictions on social media.AdvertisementSupported byBy The Associated PressWELLINGTON, New Zealand — New Zealand lawmakers have voted overwhelmingly in favor of new gun control measures during the first stage of a bill they hope to rush into law by the end of next week.The bill would ban the types of weapons a gunman used to kill 50 people at two mosques last month.Only one lawmaker from the 120 that sit in Parliament voted against the legislation in a bipartisan display of unity. Tuesday's vote was the first of three that lawmakers must pass before the bill becomes law.AdvertisementSupported byBy ReutersCANBERRA — Australia will fine social media and web hosting companies up to 10 percent of their annual global turnover and imprison executives for up to three years if violent content is not removed "expeditiously" under a new law.The new law passed by parliament on Thursday is in response to a lone gunman attack on two mosques in Christchurch on March 15 which killed 50 people as they attended Friday prayers.The gunman broadcasted his attack live on Facebook and it was widely shared for over an hour before being removed, a timeframe Australian Prime Minister Scott Morrison described as unacceptable.Australian Brenton Tarrant, 28, a suspected white supremacist, was charged with one murder following the attack and was remanded without a plea.New Zealand police said on Thursday that Tarrant will face a total of 50 murder charges and 39 attempted murder charges when he appears in court on Friday.Under the new laws, it is now an offence in Australia for companies, such as Facebook Inc and Alphabet's Google, which owns YouTube, not to remove any videos or photographs that show murder, torture or rape without delay. Companies must also inform Australian police within a "reasonable" timeframe."It is important that we make a very clear statement to social media companies that we expect their behavior to change," Australian Minister for Communications and the Arts Mitch Fifield told reporters in Canberra.Australian Attorney-General Christian Porter described the laws as a "world first in terms of legislating the conduct of social media and online platforms".Juries will decide whether companies have complied with the timetable, heightening the risk of high-profile convictions."Whenever there are juries involved, they can get it wrong but when you add into the mix technology - which is complex - the risk is heightened," Jason Bosland, professor of media law, University of Melbourne told Reuters.Technology firms said they are already working on the issue."We have zero tolerance for terrorist content on our platforms," said a spokesperson for Google in an emailed statement."We are committed to leading the way in developing new technologies and standards for identifying and removing terrorist content."A spokeswoman for Facebook was not immediately available for comment.Facebook said last week it was exploring restrictions on who can access their live video-streaming service, depending on factors such as previous violations of the site's community standards.Digital Industry Group Inc (DIGI) - of which Facebook, Apple, Google, Amazon and Twitter are members - said the laws fail to understand the complexity of removing violent content."With the vast volumes of content uploaded to the internet every second, this is a highly complex problem," said Sunita Bose, Managing Director of DIGI. AdvertisementSupported byBy The Associated PressNEWTOWN, Conn. — Jeremy Richman and his wife hatched an idea for a way to channel their grief on the day of their 6-year-old daughter's funeral. They would create a foundation to promote research into the brain pathologies behind violence.Their daughter Avielle was among the 20 children and six educators killed by a socially isolated gunman on Dec. 14, 2012, at Sandy Hook Elementary School.AdvertisementSupported byAll those who have helped to spread the worldwide myth that Muslims are a threat have blood on their hands.By Wajahat AliContributing Opinion Writer For Muslims, Friday Prayer is like Sunday Mass for Christians. It’s the day of community prayer. We travel to our local mosques, our religious sanctuary. Our families gather in the early afternoon to pray as a community. Kids run through the halls as the imam recites the Quran in Arabic. We eat together and mingle outside.This week, as those of us in the United States attend Friday Prayer, the Muslims in Christchurch, New Zealand, are preparing for funerals.People around the world are praying for the dead in Christchurch after terrorist attacks at two mosques. The authorities say a 28-year-old Australian walked into two mosques with assault rifles and killed at least 49 people. New Zealand’s prime minister, Jacinda Ardern, called it “an extraordinary and unprecedented act of violence.”Thoughts and prayers are not enough. These attacks are the latest manifestation of a growing and globalized ideology of white nationalism that must be addressed at its source — which includes the mainstream politicians and media personalities who nurture, promote and excuse it.If the gunman’s 74-page manifesto and social media posts are to be believed, he was inspired by a thriving online ideological structure that recruits and radicalizes mostly men to save “Western civilization” from a foreign “invasion.”We’ve seen this before. The gunman’s justifications for his act of terrorism were similar to those in the 1,500-page manifesto that the Norwegian Anders Breivik posted before he killed 77 people in 2011. Mr. Breivik wanted to punish Europe for its multiculturalism and welcome of Muslim immigrants. His manifesto and attacks are said to have inspired the white nationalist Christopher Hasson, who was recently arrested on charges of stockpiling weapons with the desire to commit mass murder, especially against Muslims.If the idea that Muslims are a threat sounds familiar, it’s in part because it was used by President Trump to argue for a wall to protect America from a “caravan” of Central American migrants seeking asylum. He asserted that “Middle Easterners” were in the caravan, a claim he admitted he could not back up. During a summer trip to England, Mr. Trump warned that Britain was losing its “culture” and that immigration had “changed the fabric of Europe — and unless you act very quickly, it’s never going to be what it was.”Arguing for his travel ban aimed at mostly Muslim countries, Mr. Trump said, “I think Islam hates us,” lied about seeing Muslims celebrate the Sept. 11 attacks, and retweeted a fringe anti-Muslim group’s fake videos of Muslim refugees committing violence. No wonder the Christchurch manifesto praised Mr. Trump as “a symbol of renewed white identity and common purpose.”It’s clear that the dangers of white nationalism aren’t limited to the United States. This attack is a reminder that this dangerous ideology also threatens immigrant communities worldwide, and that it’s fueled by leaders around the world.Australia, where the gunman is said to be from, has plenty of its own anti-Muslim, xenophobic rhetoric.In 2015, a movement called Reclaim Australia organized protests against the “enforcing of Shariah law in Australia” and “the teaching of Islam in government schools.” The Conversation reported that placards displayed by the group at a rally read “Islam is an enemy of the West.” A key policy goal of the far-right political party Australian Liberty Alliance is to “stop the Islamization of Australia.” Its website warns, “Islam is not merely a religion, it is a totalitarian ideology with global aspirations.”While Australia’s prime minister, Scott Morrison, described the suspect as “an extremist, right-wing, violent terrorist,” an Australian senator, Fraser Anning, responded to the Christchurch attack by blaming “the immigration program which allowed Muslim fanatics to migrate to New Zealand in the first place.”It seems the senator shares similar sentiments with mass murderers.In his manifesto, the gunman, who referred to himself as a “regular white man,” wrote that he was carrying out the attack to “directly reduce immigration rates to European lands by intimidating and physically removing the invaders themselves.”The manifesto reveals an obsession with white supremacy, discussing the Battle of Vienna in 1683, which is glorified by white nationalists and Mr. Breivik as the critical moment when Europe staved off the Ottoman Empire’s advance and protected itself from Islam. Text scrawled on the gunman’s weapons appears to refer to military battles such as the 1189 Siege of Acre, a victory for the Christian Crusaders seeking to retake Jerusalem from Muslims. He mentioned Alexandre Bissonnette, who shot and killed six people in a Quebec mosque in 2017 and was a known white nationalist with anti-immigrant and anti-Muslim resentment.His ideas — and their sources and supporters — were familiar to me. As a researcher for the Center for American Progress Action Fund’s 2011 investigation “Fear Inc.: The Roots of the Islamophobia Network in America,” I connected fringe anti-Muslim conspiracies — such as the made-up threat of Shariah law in America — to the funding sources, think tanks, media personalities, grass-roots groups and politicians who created and promoted them.These entities have worked together to reinforce the message that Muslim Americans are inherently radical and represent a “demographic time bomb” that will overtake the white population. Mr. Breivik repeatedly cited these groups and people, many of them now closely linked to the Trump administration. Although they should not be blamed for Mr. Breivik’s violence, Marc Sageman, a former C.I.A. officer and a consultant on terrorism, said Mr. Breivik nonetheless emerges from the same ideological network.Among white nationalists’ major motivators is “the great replacement” conspiracy theory. They fear that Jews, blacks and Muslims will replace white people and eventually subordinate them. Jews are often viewed as the diabolical head of the cabal, the nerve center, who use their infinite wealth and power to reduce and weaken the white man.In October, Robert Bowers walked into the Tree of Life synagogue in Pittsburgh and killed 11 Jewish worshipers. He posted on the right-wing social network Gab that the Jewish refugee resettlement agency HIAS “likes to bring invaders in that kill our people” and “I can’t sit by and watch my people get slaughtered.” He also re-shared a post about punishing “filthy evil Jews” for bringing “filthy evil Muslims into the country.” This echoed the anti-Semitic conspiracy theory that Jewish billionaire George Soros funded the migrant “caravan” — a lie that was promoted by President Trump and other prominent conservatives.Representative Steve King, an Iowa Republican, recently asked, “White nationalist, white supremacist, Western civilization — how did that language become offensive? He once tweeted, “We can’t restore our civilization with somebody else’s babies,” referring to the children of Latino immigrants. Steve Bannon, President Trump’s former chief adviser and former head of Breitbart News, has recommended the racist, dystopian novel “Camp of the Saints,” in which brown immigrants invade and take over France.While news of the New Zealand shooting was breaking, President Trump tweeted a link — which he has since deleted — to the home page of Breitbart News, a site that has regularly published anti-Muslim and anti-immigrant conspiracy theories.Upon learning about the massacre in Christchurch, a Muslim friend messaged me, “How will we keep our kids safe?”I didn’t have a good answer. But I know the threat we’re facing isn’t just individual terrorists. It’s the global ideology of white nationalism and white supremacy. We have to take it seriously, and call out politicians, academics and media personalities who give it a platform under the guise of exploring both sides, fostering debate or avoiding political correctness.The cost is too great. Just look to Christchurch and the 49 worshipers who should have returned home to their families and community instead of attending their last prayer.AdvertisementSupported byBy The Associated PressEL PASO, Texas — A West Texas sheriff's deputy, who was critically wounded Friday in a shooting during a traffic stop, has died.The El Paso County Sheriff's office confirmed the death of Deputy Peter Herrera in a statement on Facebook. It gave no further details.Authorities had said on Friday that they expected Herrera to survive the shooting because he was wearing a protective vest.AdvertisementSupported byBy The New York TimesForty-nine people were killed in shootings at two mosques in central Christchurch, New Zealand, on Friday, in a terrorist attack that Prime Minister Jacinda Ardern described as “an extraordinary and unprecedented act of violence.”• Officials said that one man in his late 20s had been charged with murder, and that two explosive devices were found attached to a vehicle that they had stopped.• A Muslim leader in New Zealand said the attack was especially shocking as it took place around Friday Prayer. The police urged people to stay away from the mosques until further notice.• A video and manifesto that appeared to be by a gunman involved in the shooting were posted online on the day of the attack.Shots were fired at Al Noor Mosque on Deans Avenue in the center of the city, and at Linwood Mosque, about three miles away, the police said.The country’s police commissioner, Mike Bush, said in an evening news conference that 41 people had been killed at Al Noor Mosque and seven at Linwood Mosque, and that a further victim had died at Christchurch Hospital.The police said that four people, including three men and one woman, had been taken into custody. Prime Minister Scott Morrison of Australia said that one of them was Australian.Mr. Bush said that a man in his late 20s had been charged with murder and would appear in Christchurch court on Saturday morning. A number of firearms were recovered from the scenes of the shootings, he said.Of the three others who were arrested, the police commissioner said that one might have had nothing to do with the attack and that the police were working to determine how the other two might have been involved.Ms. Ardern said earlier that none of those detained were on security watch lists.Two explosive devices were found on one vehicle, Mr. Bush said, adding that the police had defused one and were in the process of defusing the other.Mr. Bush had earlier urged people not to go to mosques anywhere in New Zealand on Friday. He also urged mosques nationally to “close your doors until you hear from us again.”— CHARLOTTE GRAHAM-McLAY and MEGAN SPECIAA 17-minute video posted to social media appears to show part of the attack.The clip, which may have been taken from a helmet camera worn by a gunman, begins behind the wheel of a car. A man, whose face can occasionally be seen in the rearview mirror, drives through the streets of Christchurch before pulling up in front of Al Noor Mosque, beside the sprawling Hagley Park.He approaches the mosque on foot, his weapon visible, and begins shooting at people at the entrance. What follows is a harrowing nearly two minutes of his firing on the worshipers.At one point, the gunman exits the mosque and fires in both directions down the sidewalk before returning to his car for another gun — which, like the others, was inscribed with numbers, symbols or messages. When he re-enters the mosque, he shoots several bodies at close range.After another few minutes, he returns to his vehicle and drives away.“There wasn’t even time to aim, there was so many targets,” he says at one point, as the sirens of an emergency response vehicle blare in the background.— MEGAN SPECIA and JASON BAILEYBefore the shooting, someone appearing to be the gunman posted links to a white-nationalist manifesto on Twitter and the online forum 8chan. The 8chan post included a link to what appeared to be the gunman’s Facebook page, where he said he would also broadcast live video of the attack.The Twitter posts showed weapons covered in the names of past military generals and men who have recently carried out mass shootings.In his manifesto, he identified himself as a 28-year-old man born in Australia and listed his white nationalist heroes.Writing that he had purposely used guns to stir discord in the United States over the Second Amendment’s provision on the right to bear arms, he also declared himself a fascist. “For once, the person that will be called a fascist, is an actual fascist,” he wrote.— DANIEL VICTOR and TIFFANY MAYFelix Kjellberg, a polarizing YouTube celebrity known as PewDiePie, distanced himself from the attacks after the man who filmed himself shooting victims at a mosque encouraged viewers to “subscribe to PewDiePie” in a video livestream.“I feel absolutely sickened having my name uttered by this person,” Mr. Kjellberg, a Swede, said on Twitter.Mr. Kjellberg has courted controversy by performing anti-Semitic gestures, which he calls satirical, in his videos. He has a following of 89 million subscribers.— TIFFANY MAYOver the last 18 months, tech companies have promised stronger safeguards to ensure that violent content is not distributed through their sites. But those new safeguards were not enough to stop the posting of a video and manifesto believed related to Friday’s shooting.A 17-minute video that included graphic footage apparently of the shooting could be found on Facebook, YouTube, Twitter and Instagram more than an hour after being posted. While Facebook and Twitter took down pages thought to be linked to the gunman, the posted content was spread rapidly through other accounts.In order to evade detection, people appeared to be cropping the video or posting the text of the manifesto as an image — both of which are techniques used to evade automated systems that find and delete content.Social media companies have heavily invested in those systems, with Facebook reporting last year that more than 99 percent of terrorism content by the Islamic State and Al Qaeda was found and removed through artificial intelligence.A Facebook spokeswoman offered condolences to the victims and said the company was “removing any praise or support for the crime and the shooter or shooters as soon as we’re aware.”— SHEERA FRENKEL and DANIEL VICTORMoustafa Farouk, a spokesman for the Federation of Islamic Associations of New Zealand, said it was especially shocking that the attack occurred around Friday Prayer.Mr. Farouk, who said in a telephone interview that he was on his way to Christchurch to meet with Muslims there, said he had never imagined that an attack of this kind could happen in New Zealand.“It’s one of the most peaceful countries in the world,” he added, although he said that “this kind of random act of violence will affect that image.”— MEGAN SPECIAMs. Ardern called Friday “one of New Zealand’s darkest days.”“What has happened here is an extraordinary and unprecedented act of violence,” the prime minister said at a news conference in New Plymouth, describing the shooting as “an act that has absolutely no place in New Zealand.”“Many of those affected may be migrants to New Zealand — they may even be refugees here,” Ms. Ardern said of the victims. “They are one of us. The person who has perpetrated these acts is not.”Ibrar Sheikh, the secretary of the Al Mustafa Jamia Masjid in south Auckland, described the two mosques targeted in Christchurch as “a United Nations” of ethnicities.— CHARLOTTE GRAHAM McLAYAman Singh, who works at a convenience store close to the Deans Avenue mosque, said he had heard the gunshots on Friday afternoon, and that shortly afterward people had streamed past the shop, bloody and crying.Mr. Singh, 26, said he knew several people who worshiped at the mosque.“My really good friend goes there,” he said, adding that he had not been able to confirm the friend’s whereabouts on Friday afternoon.Mr. Singh, who moved to New Zealand from India four and a half years ago, was still hiding in the store with his wife, as the police had yet to arrive at their location.He said they would be unlikely to be able to return home anyway, as their street was cordoned off because it was close to the Linwood Mosque that was also attacked.— CHARLOTTE GRAHAM-McLAYMurders are rare in New Zealand, and gun homicides even rarer. There were 35 murders countrywide in 2017. And since 2007, gun homicides have been in the single digits each year except 2009, when there were 11.But there are plenty of guns.There were 1.2 million registered firearms in the country of 4.6 million people in 2017, according to the Small Arms Survey, a Swiss nonprofit.A mass shooting in the New Zealand in 1990 — when a man killed 13 people, including two 6-year-olds, after a dispute with his neighbor in the seaside town of Aramoana — led directly to tightened gun laws, including restrictions on “military style semiautomatic weapons.”Gun owners must be licensed, a process that includes a review of criminal activity and mental health, attendance at a safety program, an explanation of how the gun would be used, a residence visit to ensure secure storage, and testimonials from relatives and friends.— DANIEL VICTORAdvertisementSupported byBy The Associated PressBOISE, Idaho — The largest supplier of bump stocks turned in its entire remaining inventory to be destroyed — some 60,000 devices. Washington state's buyback program was so popular it ran out of money. One dealer held a "Viking funeral" for his last bump stock, pouring a can of beer on it and then melting it down with a flamethrower.A nationwide ban took effect Tuesday on bump stocks, the attachment used by the gunman in the 2017 Las Vegas massacre to make his weapons fire rapidly like machine guns.How many of the estimated half-million devices believed to be in circulation in the U.S. are still around is anyone's guess, but in the weeks leading up to the ban, there were signs that many were destroyed or turned in as required.Anyone in possession of a bump stock from now on can be charged with a federal offense punishable by up to 10 years in prison.The Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives outlawed the attachments at President Donald Trump's direction after the Las Vegas gunman rained fire from his high-rise hotel suite on concertgoers, killing 58 people in the deadliest mass shooting in modern U.S. history.On Thursday, the Supreme Court declined to put the ban on hold.As the prohibition drew near, RW Arms in Fort Worth, Texas, featured a countdown clock on its website and heavily promoted last chances to buy the accessories. By the time the ban took effect, RW Arms was left with 60,000, probably worth millions, since they sell for around $150 to $250 each.The company turned over crates of them to the ATF, and a video showed boxes being loaded onto a conveyer belt and fed into an industrial grinder.Washington state set aside $150,000 to offer owners $150 for each device they turned in to police. Within weeks, the money had been used up.The ATF declined to say how many people brought their bump stocks to an ATF office.T.J. Kirgin, owner of a firearms tactical gear company in St. Peters, Missouri, said that in the weeks before the measure went into effect, he made one last sweep through his warehouse to make sure he didn't have any more devices left.And then he took his very last one and with some friends held a mock funeral for it, reducing it to a hunk of melted plastic embedded in a rock.While gun control activists welcomed the end of the line for a device blamed for horrifying carnage, Kirgin called it not just the day bump stocks died but the day freedom died."If they can do this with a piece of plastic, then they'll be able to do it with another piece of plastic and another piece of metal, another piece of plastic," he said. "And it's just systematically taking away Second Amendment rights."AdvertisementSupported byBy ReutersCHRISTCHURCH — The Australian man accused of killing 50 worshippers at two mosques in New Zealand faced an additional 49 murder charges in court on Friday and was ordered to undergo a mental assessment to determine his fitness for trial over the attacks.In an attack broadcast live on Facebook, a lone gunman armed with semi-automatic weapons targeted Muslims attending Friday prayers in Christchurch on March 15.Brenton Tarrant, 28, was charged with one murder the day after the attack and remanded without a plea. In Christchurch's High Court, where he appeared by video link, 39 extra attempted murder charges were also filed along with the new murder charges.AdvertisementSupported byBy The Associated PressCANBERRA, Australia — Australia's prime minister said Thursday that he had ruled out any vote-sharing deal with an influential minor party in a bid to protect the nation's strict gun controls.Prime Minister Scott Morrison made his decision after One Nation leader Pauline Hanson apparently questioned the official account of a 1996 massacre in which a gunman acting alone killed 35 people in Tasmania state.Less than two weeks after the Port Arthur massacre, Australia banned semi-automatic rifles and shotguns. New Zealand similarly banned a range of semi-automatic firearms after a lone gunman killed 50 worshippers in two Christchurch mosques on March 15.Morrison said his conservative Liberal Party would disadvantage One Nation candidates under Australia's preferential voting system at general elections due in May by refusing to share votes.Under Australia's systems, voters rank candidates in order of preference. The higher candidates are ranked by a majority of voters, the better their chances of being elected.The Liberal Party would normally direct its supporters to rank the opposition center-left Labor Party last, because Labor candidates have a chance of forming government. Like-minded parties often make deals to rank each others' candidates ahead of a common enemy.But in a move interpreted by some as putting principle ahead of politics, Morrison said his party would urge voters to rank Labor ahead of One Nation."This is a decision which is based on our strong view about the sanctity of Australia's gun laws and to ensure that at no stage that those things should ever be put at risk," Morrison told reporters."It's very important, having been the party that introduced those laws, that we ensure that they are forever protected and there can be no compromise when it comes to those issues or any trading on the issue of those gun laws," he added.Anti-Muslim One Nation has been widely condemned after an Al Jazeera documentary reported this week that two party officials flew to the United States for meetings with pro-gun interests including the National Rifle Association and political donors Koch Industries in September last year seeking money to undermine Australian gun laws.The two-part documentary that uses video secretly filmed by a fake gun lobbyist reveals Hanson said during a dinner with party officials in her home state of Queensland last year that she has "a lot of questions" about the Port Arthur massacre.She quoted an Australian state premier who said almost a decade before the mass shooting in the ruins of a 19th century Tasmanian prison: "It will take a massacre in Tasmania before we get gun reform in Australia."Conspiracy theorists argue the quote proves that the massacre was engineered by the gun reform lobby. Others argue the quote reflects a New South Wales premier's frustration that Tasmania had Australia's weakest gun laws and was most resistant to change. Australia now has relatively uniform gun laws.While on the subject of conspiracy theories, a party official at the dinner is recorded mentioning the al-Qaida attacks on the United States on Sept. 11, 2001.Hanson said on Thursday her broadcast comments has been "heavily edited" and did not reflect her views on the Australian massacre."There is no question in my mind that Martin Bryant was the only person responsible for the murders of 35 innocent lives," Hanson told reporters, referring to the convicted killer."Let me make it very clear to everyone in this country: One Nation will never water-down gun policy in this country," she added.She described Morrison as "a fool" who would give Labor the government at the next election through his decision on vote-sharing.Morrison said Hanson's broadcast comments on the Port Arthur massacre, to which the gunman pleaded guilty, was the final straw. He said he consulted former Liberal Prime Minister John Howard, who introduced Australia's gun reforms and a buyback that reduced the estimated number of guns in Australia by 20 percent, before announcing his decision.Barnaby Joyce, a senior lawmaker in the Nationals party, the rural-based junior partner of the ruling coalition that most directly competes against One Nation for conservative voters, described Hanson's comments on Port Arthur as "bonkers mad.""It is beyond the pale. We now have One Nation questioning both 9/11, the terrorist attack on New York and the Port Arthur massacre," Joyce told Australian Broadcasting Corp. "What is next for them? Are they going to question man on the moon? "The Nationals have yet to say whether they will follow the Liberal Party lead by putting Labor ahead of One Nation on how-to-vote cards distributed at polling booths to its supporters.AdvertisementSupported byBy ReutersCHRISTCHURCH — The Australian man accused of killing 50 worshippers at two mosques in New Zealand faced an additional 49 murder charges in court on Friday and was ordered to undergo a mental assessment to determine his fitness for trial over the attacks.In an attack broadcast live on Facebook, a lone gunman armed with semi-automatic weapons targeted Muslims attending Friday prayers in Christchurch on March 15.Brenton Tarrant, 28, was charged with one murder the day after the attack and remanded without a plea. In Christchurch's High Court, where he appeared by video link, 39 extra attempted murder charges were also filed along with the new murder charges.AdvertisementSupported byBy The Associated PressFORT WORTH, Texas — A Texas retailer of now-banned bump stocks has transferred about 60,000 of the gun-related items to the federal government to be destroyed.RW Arms of Fort Worth turned over the bump stocks to the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives. The products will be shredded and recycled.ATF agents were present as crates of new RW Arms bump stops were delivered to a shredding facility on Tuesday, the day the ban took effect.OpinionGun makers will face a jury. But it’s the play-soldier subculture they’ve promoted that’s being judged.A Bushmaster AR-15, the type of gun used in the Sandy Hook school massacre.CreditCreditJulie Dermansky/Corbis, via Getty ImagesSupported byBy The Editorial BoardThe editorial board represents the opinions of the board, its editor and the publisher. It is separate from the newsroom and the Op-Ed section.For years, uncompromising gun enthusiasts have demanded that politicians, the press and the American people never slander their beloved military-style semiautomatic rifles with the name “assault weapons.”Even though the guns are marketed with military imagery. Even though there’s a thriving business in aftermarket accessories, like thermal scopes and high-capacity magazines made to “military specification.” Even after these lethal weapons have been used to kill scores of people in massacre after massacre after massacre. Calling these rifles “assault weapons” is unfair, gun makers and their apologists insist, because it implies they are frightening weapons of war when they are sold for civilian use. This distinction, the fairness of it, matters not at all to the women, men and children wounded or killed by these guns.The Connecticut Supreme Court on Thursday permitted a civil suit to move forward against the companies that manufactured and sold the weapon used by the gunman to fire 154 rounds during a five-minute rampage through Sandy Hook Elementary School in 2012. It was an unexpected loss for the firearms industry, which has long enjoyed federal protection — granted by Congress —  from legal redress for the victims of its products. In this case, the court allowed the suit to proceed over whether the weapon maker violated state prohibitions against unfair trade practices. The plaintiffs argue that the AR-15-style rifle used in the attack had been marketed as a weapon of war in a campaign aimed deliberately at troubled young men like Adam Lanza, the Sandy Hook gunman.A trial could force gun companies to turn over internal communications about their advertising and sales operations. But the public doesn’t need internal emails to recognize the obvious incongruity between sanitized terminology like “modern sporting rifle” and ads with men dressed in tactical gear, swinging tricked-out AR-15s and creeping around like wannabe members of the Navy SEALs. The weapon used at Sandy Hook was advertised as “the ultimate combat weapons system” with the slogan: “Consider your man card reissued.”While it will be gun companies on the stand, the unindicted co-conspirator in the Connecticut courtroom is the portion of American gun culture — and it is only a portion — that fetishizes military weaponry with little regard to the dangers of putting such deadly weapons freely into the hands of a civilian population.AdvertisementSupported byBy Charlotte Graham-McLayWELLINGTON, New Zealand — As Prime Minister Jacinda Ardern of New Zealand considered on Monday how her government would investigate the terrorist attack that traumatized the country 10 days ago, she also began returning to normal business, announcing that she would make a long-delayed trip to Beijing next week.The announcement signaled a shift after signs of growing tensions between the countries. Ms. Ardern, who told reporters that she would meet with China’s president, Xi Jinping, and the country’s premier, Li Keqiang, said the long-planned trip had been scaled back to a single day in light of the attack.The visit will be “literally 24 hours, and traveling with as little time away as possible,” Ms. Ardern said, adding that the trip had been planned “some weeks ago” and that Chinese officials had been “incredibly accommodating” about her decision to shorten it after the shooting attacks on two Christchurch mosques in which 50 people were killed.Her original plan had been to travel with a business delegation from New Zealand and to make stops in three cities. Instead, she will travel without the group and will visit only Beijing.There have been growing fears that New Zealand’s close economic relationship with China was fraying after Ms. Ardern was unable to schedule a visit there to follow up on a November invitation. Around the same time, the start of a much-anticipated joint tourism initiative with China was canceled, and that has now been rescheduled for Friday.China is New Zealand’s largest trading partner and imports more than $10 billion of its products.Commentators suggested that Ms. Ardern’s government was facing retaliation because it had joined other Western nations in taking a tough stance against the Chinese technology company Huawei. The company took out advertisements in the country’s largest newspapers last month, trying to win public support in New Zealand for its involvement in the country’s 5G telecommunications networks.“China is an important regional and global actor with whom we must work on challenges facing the global community and those critical to the security and prosperity of our region,” Ms. Ardern told reporters on Monday, having previously played down talk of tensions.The apparent shift in the relationship came as her cabinet met on Monday to decide what form its investigation into the Christchurch attacks would take, settling on a royal commission — an independent inquiry reserved for the most serious matters in New Zealand public life.Ms. Ardern said the commission would investigate whether anything could have been done to prevent the attacks, in which a gunman killed 50 people and injured 50 more as they worshiped at two mosques during Friday Prayer on March 15. The gunman broadcast the killings live on Facebook.The inquiry would also examine the accessibility of semiautomatic weapons — Ms. Ardern has already acted to ban military-style versions of such guns — the role social media played in the attack, and whether New Zealand’s security services or other government agencies could have done anything to prevent it.Muslims in New Zealand and overseas were “quite rightly asking questions about how this terror attack was able to happen here,” Ms. Ardern said.Dean Knight, a public law professor at Victoria University of Wellington, said royal commissions were usually led by retired judges, lawyers or industry experts and took “as long as they need to take,” though Ms. Ardern said this inquiry would not take “years” as others have in the past.“Because they can be bespoke in their work, it’s possible to develop a strategy to deliver things promptly,” Dr. Knight said by email. “But if the inquiry is run with the tradition of court-like processes, it will slow things down.”Ms. Ardern said it was “unacceptable” that the gunman’s video was still available on social media platforms, even after tech companies assured her that they were working to remove it. While she would not comment on the policies of individual companies, shortened videos of the shooting — which has been classified as illegal to share by New Zealand’s chief censor — were still available on Twitter on Monday.Twitter said in an emailed statement that it had “rigorous processes and a dedicated team in place” for emergency situations such as the Christchurch attacks, and that it cooperated with law enforcement where required.The company did not detail what the emergency processes entailed or how they differed from normal moderation tools. It did not say whether New Zealand law enforcement had made specific requests.Twitter has asked users to report such material if they see it, but Ms. Ardern said relying on users to flag the video was “not an effective way of managing incredibly disturbing content.”AdvertisementSupported byBy The Associated PressWASHINGTON — Gun rights groups are asking the Supreme Court to stop the Trump administration from beginning to enforce its ban on bump stock devices, which allow semi-automatic weapons to fire like machine guns.AdvertisementSupported byBy Damien Cave and Matt StevensThe shootings that killed at least 49 people at two mosques in New Zealand on Friday have placed new scrutiny on New Zealand’s gun laws and sparked a fervent debate about whether they were a factor in the gunman’s decision to carry out his attack there.The man was identified in court papers as Brenton Harrison Tarrant, 28, and officials have said he was an Australian citizen, which has led to comparisons between gun laws in Australia and in New Zealand.While New Zealand’s laws governing the purchase of semiautomatic rifles are more restrictive than those in the United States, the country is much freer with firearms than Australia is, allowing most guns to be purchased without requiring them to be tracked.“New Zealand is almost alone with the United States in not registering 96 percent of its firearms — and those are its most common firearms, the ones most used in crimes,” said Philip Alpers of GunPolicy.org, a clearinghouse for gun law data worldwide. “There are huge gaps in New Zealand law, even if some of its laws are strong.”New Zealand’s prime minister, Jacinda Ardern, said on Saturday that five firearms, including two semiautomatic weapons, were used in the attacks.“If he went to New Zealand to commit these crimes,” Mr. Alpers said, “one can assume that the ease of obtaining these firearms may have been a factor in his decision to commit the crime in Christchurch.”[Get the latest updates on the New Zealand terrorist attack here.]In the years since a gunman killed 35 people in Port Arthur, Tasmania, in 1996, Australia has embarked on one of the world’s most expansive efforts to rid a society of gun violence. Officials significantly strengthened gun laws, severely restricted semiautomatic weapons and engaged in a buyback program that took more than 650,000 firearms off the streets.The gun laws in New Zealand are more layered, and do not fit easily into a pro or anti-gun rubric.Semiautomatic rifles and handguns, for example, require special licenses; a person can only buy one semiautomatic weapon at a time. “The police will look very askance at you if you want four or five of them,” Mr. Alpers said. “It gets harder and harder if you want more and more.” Still, Mr. Alpers said, it is possible to obtain a large cache of weapons — either by acting alone or if more than one person is purchasing.As the law stands now, any person age 16 or older with an entry-level firearm license can keep any number of common rifles and shotguns without an official record of those guns being kept.Most of the guns in circulation can be sold on the internet or through ads in newspapers, and the most popular types of firearms can lawfully change hands in private homes or even hotel parking lots with no requirement that a record of the transaction be kept.Still, the country has generally been safe from gun massacres. Its last mass shooting, which left 13 people dead, was in 1990 — and it led to tighter rules around semiautomatic weapons.Police officers do not generally carry firearms and murders are rare; the death toll from Friday’s terrorist attack is roughly equivalent to the number of murders that occur in the country each year. The annual tally of gun homicides specifically is even lower.“New Zealanders are by and large safe users of firearms and that has led everybody to relax,” Mr. Alpers said. “It’s led New Zealanders to think they don’t have a problem.”[The gunman appeared to be steeped in the culture of the extreme-right internet.]At the same time, however, New Zealand’s gun culture is significant and deeply ingrained. Like the United States, Australia and Canada, New Zealand’s frontier history has led to a proliferation of guns used for sport, for protecting wide open spaces from animals, and for dealing with problems like wounded cattle.Of the 3.9 million New Zealanders of gun licensing age, 238,000 — 6 percent — have a firearm license, according to GunPolicy.org.“Our gun laws will change, now is the time,” Ms. Ardern said Saturday, though she did not say what that legislation would look like. “People will be seeking change, and I am committed to that.”Mr. Alpers predicted that lawmakers would work to make guns harder to obtain.“This will certainly change things in New Zealand,” he said. “I can’t think of a country that’s more likely to change its gun laws after something like this.”AdvertisementSupported byBy The Associated PressBERLIN — A prominent Austrian far-right activist who is under investigation for ties to the suspected New Zealand mosque gunman said Thursday that U.S. authorities have canceled his permit to travel to the United States without a visa.Austrian authorities on Monday searched the home of Martin Sellner, a leading member of the Identitarian Movement of Austria, and seized electronic devices belonging to him and his American fiancee Brittany Pettibone. The raid followed the discovery of a 1,500 euro (almost $1,700) donation sent to Sellner by the alleged Christchurch attacker last year.In a statement on social media, Sellner said he learned Thursday that U.S. authorities have revoked his ESTA permit. The visa waiver program allows citizens of some countries to enter the U.S. for under three months without needing a visa."We had actually planned to get married in the U.S. this summer and I've always been able to get in (to the United States) without problems," Sellner said on his YouTube channel, noting that American authorities hadn't denied him entry over his political activities in the past.The U.S. Embassy in Vienna declined to comment on the case and the Department for Homeland Security didn't immediately respond to an email seeking comment. It was unclear whether Sellner could still apply for a regular visa to travel to the United States.Last year, Sellner and Pettibone were denied entry to Britain after officials deemed their presence to be "not conducive to the public good."The Identitarian Movement has become the focus of an investigation by Austrian authorities following the discovery of the donation from the suspected New Zealand gunman Brenton Tarrant.Austria's conservative Chancellor Sebastian Kurz told reporters Wednesday that his government planned to act against extremism "whether it's radical Islamism or far-right fanatics.""Furthermore (we will) examine whether the Identitarians can be dissolved," he said.Austrian Interior Minister Herbert Kickl told lawmakers Thursday that authorities haven't found any evidence that Tarrant had "personal contacts to extremist persons or organizations" when he visited Austria from Nov. 27 to Dec. 4., 2018. Tarrant, an Australian citizen, had earlier spent time in Hungary, Romania and Bulgaria, and later flew to Estonia, he said.Tarrant has been charged with murder over the March 15 massacre of 50 people in the southern New Zealand city.Sellner told The Associated Press that he had exchanged emails with Tarrant after the donation and pointed him to his English-language YouTube channel, but denied having any involvement in the attack or inspiring Tarrant with his anti-Islam ideology.AdvertisementSupported byBy The New York Times[Click here for the latest updates.]• New Zealand grappled with grief and horror on Sunday as the death toll rose to 50 people two days after a gunman opened fire  at two mosques in the city of Christchurch. The terrorist attack appeared to have been carried out by a white nationalist who posted a racist manifesto online and streamed live video of the killings on Facebook.• A 28-year-old man from Australia was charged with murder and appeared Saturday morning in a Christchurch courtroom. Court papers identified him as Brenton Harrison Tarrant. The New Zealand police said he would face additional charges, and were considering charging him under the country’s Terrorism Suppression Act.• Minutes before the shooting began on Friday, Prime Minister Jacinda Ardern was emailed a copy of the manifesto purported to be from the gunman, her office said. Many news outlets and lawmakers also received the email.• Ms. Ardern promised that New Zealand’s “gun laws will change” and that her cabinet would discuss options for how, though she did not offer specifics. The gunman had five firearms, including two semiautomatic weapons, she said. But the issue could be a divisive one in a country where an extraordinary number of people own weapons, with few restrictions.Thirty-four victims of the shootings remain in Christchurch Hospital, 12 of them in critical condition, officials said Sunday.A 4-year-old girl also remains in critical condition at a children’s hospital in Auckland, where she was flown after the attack.A Christchurch Hospital spokesman, David Meates, said that on Saturday the hospital treated nine new victims of the Friday attack. They arrived with cuts, embedded glass fragments and injuries to their backs, knees and feet.Mr. Meates said the hospital was running seven operating theaters on Sunday instead of the usual three.“Many of these people need multiple surgeries due to the complex nature of their injuries, and the need to provide a number of shorter surgeries in a phased way so patients have the best chance of recovery,” he said.The airline Air New Zealand said one of its employees, Lilik Abdul Hamid, was among those killed.The company’s chief executive, Christopher Luxon, said in a statement that Mr. Hamid had been an aircraft maintenance engineer with Air New Zealand for 16 years.“He first got to know the team even earlier when he worked with our aircraft engineers in a previous role overseas,” Mr. Luxon said. “The friendships he made at that time led him to apply for a role in Air New Zealand and make the move to Christchurch.”Mr. Hamid is survived by his wife and two children, Mr. Luxon said.It was the first public announcement of one of the victim’s names. The police have yet to release a list of those who died.The police said on Sunday that the death toll had risen to 50 as officials discovered another body at the mosque on Deans Avenue, where most of the victims were killed. Another 50 people were injured.“As of last night we were able to take all of the victims from both of those scenes and in doing so we have located a further victim,” said Mike Bush, New Zealand’s police commissioner.Mr. Bush said a list of victims’ names has been compiled with the help of senior religious leaders and had been shared with family members. He said the list was an informal one, though, and that officials would not confirm the names publicly until the bodies had been formally identified.The bodies have not yet been released to the victims’ families, but Mr. Bush said he was conscious that Muslim religious practice requires prompt burial.“We are aware of the cultural and religious needs, so we are doing that as quickly and sensitively as possible,” he said.Police officials say it took 36 minutes from when they received the first call about a shooting at a mosque to when the suspect was taken in custody.“That is an incredibly fast response time,” said John Price, commander of the district police. “You have a mobile offender across a large metropolitan city, and I am very happy with the response of our staff.”During a news briefing on Saturday, officials provided a partial timeline but many details remained unclear. Officials said the gunman arrived at a second mosque, where he continued his rampage, seven minutes after leaving the first.The suspect was later arrested in a car, which was carrying improvised explosive devices, by two police officers. Mike Bush, New Zealand’s police commissioner, said the officers prevented further deaths.“Those two police officers acted with absolute courage,” Mr. Bush said on Sunday. “I’m so proud of what they’ve done. They have prevented further deaths and risked their lives doing so.”The shooting has vaulted New Zealand into what could be a divisive political battle over gun control in the country, where an extraordinary number of people own weapons, with few restrictions. The authorities say the suspect in the assault used five guns he had acquired legally, including two semiautomatic assault weapons.Within hours of the Friday killings, Prime Minister Jacinda Ardern promised changes to New Zealand gun laws and said regulations around semiautomatic weapons was “one of the issues.” New Zealand’s attorney general, David Parker, appeared to go beyond that statement at a vigil for the victims on Saturday, indicating that semiautomatic weapons would be banned, but he later backtracked. Mr. Parker told Radio New Zealand that had been trying to reflect Ms. Ardern’s comments that “we need to ban some semiautomatics, perhaps all of them.”“Those decisions have yet to be taken, but the prime minister has signaled that we are going to look at that issue,” Mr. Parker told the broadcaster.Licensed New Zealand gun owners pushed back. The Kiwi Gun Blog, a gun-rights online publication, said that among the mosque shooter’s goals, one was “to cause the gun rights of responsible New Zealanders to be attacked.” It said “our prime minister is now capitulating with him.”There is no dispute that acquiring a military-style semiautomatic weapon is relatively easy in New Zealand, where guns are plentiful. According to a 2017 small arms survey, there are more than 1.2 million firearms among the population of 4.6 million.Under New Zealand law, anyone 16 or older may seek a firearms license, and anyone 18 or older who has applied for a firearms license can seek a permit to possess a military-style semiautomatic weapon.In the United States, the National Rifle Association, a leading advocate of gun-owner rights, issued its first statement on the attack, denouncing the killer while saying nothing about the weapons used.“It doesn’t matter if these senseless tragedies occur in the United States or abroad, our deepest sympathies are with the victims and their families,” said Andrew Arulanandam, a spokesman for the group. “This was the act of a monster. To the extent the N.R.A. is ridiculed for extending our deepest sympathies to those impacted by this horrific event, we make no apologies for our thoughts, words or prayers.”At times over the years, the N.R.A. has held up New Zealand’s relatively high rate of gun ownership and low crime as proof that gun laws are misguided, but New Zealand’s laws are already more strict than the United States, which also has a higher rate of gun ownership.The N.R.A. has tracked efforts in recent years to further tighten gun laws in New Zealand.Cam Edwards, a host on NRATV, the organization’s online streaming service, blamed social media for the Christchurch massacre.“What’s really changed in our world over the last 20 years isn’t the design of firearms,” he said in a lengthy Twitter thread. “It’s the revolutionary way we have of communicating with strangers, creating online tribes and subcultures that simply didn’t exist in large numbers a generation ago.”Abdul Aziz, 48, was in the Linwood mosque praying with his four sons when he heard gunshots. He immediately knew something was wrong.Rather than running from the sound, he ran toward it and grabbed the first thing he could find — a credit card machine — and flung it at the attacker. He tried to distract the attacker in a move that many fellow worshipers have described as heroic, weaving through cars in the parking lot, attempting to draw the gunman’s attention away from the mosque.Latef Alabi, the acting imam of Linwood, told The Associated Press he believed the death toll would have been far higher at the mosque without Mr. Aziz’s actions.Mr. Aziz said he saw the attacker drop one of his guns and managed to grab it but when he pulled the trigger, the gun was empty. When the gunman went to his car, presumably to grab more ammunition, Mr. Aziz said he threw the gun at the assailant’s windshield, shattering the glass. The assailant sped away.Mr. Aziz remained humble, saying in an interview with The New York Times that anyone in his position would have done the same. “I was prepared to give my life to save another life,” he said.Originally from Kabul, Afghanistan, Mr. Aziz lived in Australia for 27 years after having fled the violence of his home country. He moved to New Zealand a few years ago, describing it as a beautiful country.New Zealand’s police commissioner, Mike Bush, provided new details of the attack on Friday night, saying that 41 people had been killed at Al Noor mosque, in the center of the city, and seven at Linwood mosque, about three miles away. Another victim died at Christchurch Hospital, he said.David Meates, the chief executive of the Canterbury District Health Board, said that 48 people, including young children, were being treated for injuries at the hospital. Mr. Bush said on Saturday morning that two of them were in critical condition.[How to help the victims of the Christchurch shootings.]The police said on Friday that three men and one woman had been taken into custody, but Mr. Bush lowered the total number to three on Saturday morning, indicating that someone had been released.In a Christchurch courtroom that was closed to the public for security reasons, police officers in bulletproof vests brought in Brenton Harrison Tarrant, who has been charged with one count of murder in connection with the massacre. The police said he would face additional charges.Mr. Tarrant, 28, short with thinning brown hair, handcuffed and wearing white prison clothing, looked around the courtroom but said nothing as District Court Judge Paul Kellar ordered him held for a further hearing on April 5.Regional officials have said that Mr. Tarrant is an Australian citizen. Court papers listed his New Zealand address as Dunedin City, which is about 280 miles south of Christchurch.Richard Peters, his court-appointed lawyer, said Mr. Tarrant had indicated he might represent himself. Asked how Mr. Tarrant had reacted to what he is facing, Mr. Peters said, “He seemed to be quite aware of where he is and what he’s doing.”At the same time the charging document for Mr. Tarrant was handed out to reporters, a second court filing was distributed that said Daniel John Burrough, 18, of Christchurch, had been charged with “intent to excite hostility or ill-will.” Court officials would not elaborate on how the two cases were related, if at all.In addition to Mr. Tarrant, three other people were arrested in connection with the attacks, although one was apparently released. Few details have been offered about them.Prime Minister Jacinda Ardern was among dozens of lawmakers and media who were emailed a white nationalist manifesto purportedly from the gunman minutes before the shootings began on Friday, her office said.Andrew Campbell, a spokesman for Ms. Ardern, said a generic email address for the prime minister was among about 70 to which the email was sent. The “vast majority” of the recipients were news outlets, and others were lawmakers, he said on Saturday.Mr. Campbell said he believed the document was the same one that has been circulating online since the attacks. He said action was taken “almost immediately” according to protocol, “by sending it to parliamentary security, who then would pass it on the police.” He did not specify whether the email had been seen or forwarded before the shooting began.On Saturday, Ms. Ardern said that the suspect held a gun license in New Zealand and that, according to what she had been told, he “was able to legally acquire the guns that he held.”He had five firearms, including two semiautomatic weapons, she said.“That will give you an indication of why we need to change our gun laws,” she said at a news conference. “Our gun laws will change — now is the time.”But Ms. Ardern did not offer specifics about how the laws might change, saying only that her cabinet would discuss the issue. Attorney General David Parker, who had appeared to tell a crowd that New Zealand would ban semiautomatic weapons, told Radio New Zealand that regulation of the guns was “one of the issues” to be considered.“Those decisions have yet to be taken but the prime minister has signaled that we are going to look at that issue,” he said.While New Zealand’s laws governing the purchase of semiautomatic firearms are more restrictive than those in the United States, the country is much freer with firearms than Australia is, allowing most guns to be purchased without requiring them to be tracked.“New Zealand is almost alone with the United States in not registering 96 percent of its firearms — and those are its most common firearms, the ones most used in crimes,” said Philip Alpers of GunPolicy.org, a clearinghouse for gun law data worldwide. “There are huge gaps in New Zealand law, even if some of its laws are strong.”Many of the people killed in the attacks were the breadwinners in their families, Ms. Ardern said after meeting with victims’ relatives on Saturday.The victims were “predominantly from the ages of 20 to 60ish — and a large number of men,” Ms. Ardern told reporters at Hagley College, a school near the hospital where family members were gathering.Ms. Ardern said a government compensation system would help families left without income. In the meantime, mosques will continue to receive police protection, she said.A 17-minute video that was streamed live on Facebook shows part of the attack.The clip, which appeared to have been taken from a helmet camera worn by the gunman, begins behind the wheel of a car. A man, whose face can occasionally be seen in the rearview mirror, drives through the streets of Christchurch before pulling up in front of Al Noor mosque, beside the sprawling Hagley Park.[Read more about the suspect, who seems to have been performing for, and inspired by, social media.]A live video posted to social media appeared to show the attack at Al Noor Mosque, where 42 people were killed. The clip appeared to have been taken from a camera worn by a gunman.3 The gunman’s video shows him driving away six minutes after the first shot.1 The gunman parked inthe alley next to the mosque,according to the live video.Al NoorMosqueDeans Ave.2 He openedfire at around1:40 p.m.Re-entered mosque and began firingResumed firingoutside the mosqueShot abystanderFirst shot firedParkedExited mosqueGot new gun fromparked carExitedmosqueDroveaway1 min.later234563 The gunman’s video shows him driving away six minutes after the first shot.1 The gunman parked inthe alley next to the mosque,according to the live video.SouthHagleyParkAl NoorMosqueDeans Ave.2 He opened fire ataround 1:40 p.m.Re-enteredmosque andbegan firingResumed firingoutside the mosqueShot abystanderFirst shot firedParkedExited mosqueGot a new gunfrom the parked carLeft mosqueDroveaway1 minute later234563 The gunman’s video shows him driving away six minutes after the first shot.1 The gunman parked inthe alley next to the mosque,according to the live video.Al NoorMosqueDeans Ave.South Hagley Park2 He opened fire ataround 1:40 p.m.Resumed firingoutside the mosqueRe-entered mosqueand began firingShot abystanderFirst shot firedParkedExited mosqueGot a new gunfrom the parked carLeft mosqueDroveaway1 minute later23456By Jin Wu and Allison McCann | Note: Times are local time.He approaches the mosque on foot, his weapon visible, and begins shooting at people at the entrance. What follows is nearly two harrowing minutes of his firing on worshipers.At one point, the gunman exits the mosque and fires in both directions down the sidewalk before returning to his car for another gun — which, like the others, was inscribed with numbers, symbols or messages. When he re-enters the mosque, he shoots several bodies at close range.After another few minutes, he returns to his vehicle and drives away.“There wasn’t even time to aim, there was so many targets,” he says at one point, as the sirens of an emergency response vehicle blare in the background.An earlier version of this article misstated a function of the International Civil Aviation Organization. While it does manage the International Convention on Civil Aviation, the agency does not have power to impose sanctions, which first must be proposed, agreed to and set in motion by sovereign states.Reporting was contributed by Charlotte Graham-McLay, Damien Cave and Jamie Tarabay from Christchurch, New Zealand; Megan Specia, Jason Bailey, Rick Gladstone and Danny Hakim from New York; Daniel Victor and Tiffany May from Hong Kong; Alan Yuhas from London; Jacqueline Williams from Sydney and Isabella Kwai from Grafton, Australia; Sheera Frenkel from San Francisco; and Jonathan Weisman from Washington.AdvertisementSupported byBy The Associated PressBERLIN — Austria's leader called Tuesday for authorities to "ruthlessly" investigate possible ties between an Austrian nationalist group and the alleged Christchurch mosque gunman, after it emerged that a prominent far-right activist in the Alpine nation had received a donation in the suspected shooter's name.Martin Sellner, head of the Identitarian Movement of Austria, said on social media that police searched his apartment Monday and seized electronic devices after he received a "disproportionately high donation" from a person named Tarrant — the same surname as the suspected Christchurch shooter.Christoph Poelzl, spokesman for Austria's Interior Ministry, confirmed Tuesday that the country's BVT domestic intelligence agency searched Sellner's apartment in Vienna at the request of prosecutors in the city of Graz."Any connection between the Christchurch attacker and members of the Identitarians in Austria needs to be comprehensively and ruthlessly investigated," Austrian Chancellor Sebastian Kurz tweeted, adding that he had spoken to Justice Minister Josef Moser about the issue."It is important that the independent justice system can use all necessary means and resources to conduct its investigation together with the security services and expose these networks," he said. "There needs to be total clarity about all extremist activities."Hansjoerg Bacher, a spokesman for Graz prosecutors, said prosecutors had stumbled across the donation as part of an existing probe against Sellner into possible financial offenses."The purpose of the investigation is to examine links between Mr. Sellner and the Christchurch attacker," Bacher told The Associated Press.He declined to confirm when the donation took place, but said it was much higher than other contributions made to Sellner or his Identitarian Movement."Most donations were in the area of two-to-three figures, whereas this donation was in the low four-figure area," Bacher told The AP. "This made it stand out, and the events in New Zealand put a face to this donation."He said the investigation against Sellner is based on Austrian anti-terror laws."We need to determine whether there is a connection and if so, whether it's criminally significant," said Bacher.Sellner denied having anything to do with the March 15 massacre, in which 50 Muslims were killed in the southern New Zealand city.Australian Brenton Tarrant was arrested within an hour of the mosque shootings and has been charged with murder."I had nothing to do with the attack," Sellner said in a video statement posted on YouTube, adding that he would donate the money to a charitable organization.He suggested the reason for the donation might have been to provoke repressive measures against "patriots."Austrian authorities said last week that the Christchurch shooter visited Austria, but declined to confirm when or whether he met with any far-right activists during his trip.Some of Tarrant's anti-Muslim views are echoed by the Identitarian Movement. The group is close to sections of the nationalist Freedom Party, which is part of the country's coalition government.AdvertisementSupported byBy The Associated PressWELLINGTON, New Zealand — New Zealand will hold a top-level inquiry into the massacre of 50 people at two Christchurch mosques that will examine what roles guns, social media and spy agencies played preceding the attacks.Prime Minister Jacinda Ardern announced Monday that it would hold a Royal Commission of Inquiry, the country's highest form of investigation."While New Zealanders and Muslim communities around the world are both grieving and showing compassion for one another, they are also quite rightly asking questions on how this terror attack was able to happen here," Ardern said.Her Cabinet had previously agreed on holding an inquiry, but had not decided what level of investigation. She said royal commissions are usually reserved for matters of the gravest public importance and that was clearly appropriate in this case. She said the exact terms of the inquiry, including its duration, would be finalized over the next two weeks."In short, the inquiry will look at what could have or should have been done to prevent the attack," Ardern said. "It will inquire into the individual and his activities before the terrorist attack, including, of course, a look at agencies."She said those agencies will include the country's domestic spy agency, the Security Intelligence Service, and its international counterpart, the Government Communications Security Bureau. Other agencies to be looked at include police, customs and immigration.A royal commission is run independently from the government and is chaired by a high-court judge. It has the power to compel witnesses to testify and organizations to hand over documents. But it remains up to the courts or government to follow through on any recommendations or findings.Australian white supremacist Brenton Tarrant, 28, has been charged with murder for the March 15 attacks. He is next due in court on April 5.Some people have already criticized New Zealand's intelligence agencies for focusing too much on perceived threats from Muslim extremists and left-wing radicals while not looking deeply enough into possible threats from nationalist groups and white supremacists."There will be a focus on whether our intelligence community was concentrating its resources appropriately and whether there were any reports that could, or should, have alerted them to this attack," Ardern said. "It is important that no stone is left unturned to get to the bottom of how this act of terrorism occurred and what, if any, opportunities we had to stop it."On Thursday, less than a week after the attack, the government announced it was rushing through new laws to ban "military-style" semi-automatic firearms and high-capacity magazines like those used by the gunman.Ardern said Monday that it was unacceptable that a disturbing video of the attack taken by the gunman and livestreamed on Facebook continued to be available on some social media platforms. She said she wanted assurances from social media leaders that something similar would never happen again.New Zealand has previously held royal commissions into the 2010 Pike River coal mine disaster and building failures during the 2011 Christchurch earthquake. It is currently holding an inquiry into historical abuse in state care.AdvertisementSupported byBy Charlotte Graham-McLayCHRISTCHURCH, New Zealand — Prime Minister Jacinda Ardern has been the sunny face of New Zealand, celebrated as the nation’s youngest leader in 150 years, the one who gave birth in office and brought her baby to the floor of the United Nations. At 38, she’s pitched progressive politics and her nation’s charms to Stephen Colbert and the “Today” show. Vogue magazine called her the “anti-Trump.”Now, with the massacre of 50 people at two mosques by a gunman espousing anti-Muslim, anti-immigrant hatred, Ms. Ardern is back in the international spotlight, but the glamour is gone. Instead, she speaks for New Zealand at a moment of national pain, her vision of kindness in politics tested by the worst mass murder in her country’s modern history.“We represent diversity, kindness, compassion. A home for those who share our values. Refuge for those who need it,” she told reporters at Parliament as the horror of the shootings began to unfold on Friday, her words broadcast around the world even as the killer’s video and manifesto of hatred were spreading online. Ms. Ardern herself had been emailed a copy of the manifesto minutes before the massacre began.“You may have chosen us,” she said of the gunman, “but we utterly reject and condemn you.”That sentiment has echoed across New Zealand in the aftermath of the shootings. In a country of less than five million people, prized for its safety and natural beauty, people had the same refrain: Things like this do not happen here.On Saturday, thousands attended vigils and visited makeshift memorials around the country. They expressed disbelief on social media, using the hashtag #TheyAreUs to embrace the Muslim community.In Auckland, the largest city, a gathering in Aotea Square opened with a prayer for Muslims and others discriminated against around the world before the crowd sang “Stand by Me,” local news media reported. In the capital, Wellington, lampposts near the city’s largest mosque were plastered with signs.“Love and solidarity to our Muslim whanau,” the posters read, using the indigenous Maori word for family. “No room for racism here.”In Christchurch, where the massacre occurred, the tragedy drew together unlikely allies. Members of rival New Zealand gangs stood in solidarity outside Hagley College, where relatives of those dead, injured or missing gathered to console one another.“We’re here to show our support and our love,” said Karnz Vercoe, part of a group of former gang members called Tu Tangata.President Trump, who was mentioned as a source of inspiration in the manifesto believed to have been posted by the gunman, condemned the killings and called them a “horrible, disgraceful thing.” Asked by a reporter if he saw white nationalism as a rising threat around the world, Mr. Trump said: “I don’t really. I think it’s a small group of people that have very, very serious problems, I guess.”Ms. Ardern recounted on Saturday her own conversation with Mr. Trump after the attack. “He asked what support the United States could provide,” she said. “My message was: sympathy and love for all Muslim communities.”She said she had “conveyed the sentiment that I think exists here.”Aware that the eyes of the world are on New Zealand, many see Ms. Ardern as their representative for processing and reacting to the news.“Given the situation, I really don’t think anyone could do much better,” said Jordan Teheuheu, 21, who stopped at a makeshift memorial in Christchurch. “In our time of need, we need people who show who we are.”But Ms. Ardern, who took office in 2017, faces great challenges. She has promised to overhaul New Zealand’s gun laws in the wake of the attacks, though she has yet to say how and gun-rights supporters have pushed back.The Kiwi Gun Blog, an online publication, said that among the mosque shooter’s goals, one was “to cause the gun rights of responsible New Zealanders to be attacked.” It said “our prime minister is now capitulating.”A former race relations commissioner, Susan Devoy, has also called on the government to start counting instances of hate crimes, suggesting they are more common than New Zealanders like to think.“There can be no other response if we are serious about learning anything from the murders of our innocent people this week,” Ms. Devoy said.After speaking to the nation from the capital on Friday, Ms. Ardern flew to Christchurch on Saturday, accompanied by lawmakers from across the political spectrum.She was somber, dressed in black. At a meeting with Muslim leaders, for which she wore a black head scarf, Ms. Ardern asked those present what they would like her to do.“Our time is for you to determine,” she told the leaders. They wanted her to meet families of the victims, and she did.Christchurch, a city of 375,000, has faced tragedy before: It was rocked by major earthquakes in 2010 and 2011, demolishing much of the central city. The February 2011 quake killed 185 people.The city’s mental health services are still stretched to the breaking point. Just last month, Ms. Ardern promised $54 million for mental health treatment in Christchurch.Lynette Hardie Wills said people “are still suffering” after the quakes. Eight years later, she is waiting for repairs to her badly damaged home.AdvertisementSupported byBy William K. Rashbaum and Ali Watkins[What you need to know to start the day: Get New York Today in your inbox.]When a hooded gunman pumped close to a dozen bullets into Frank Cali, a reputed leader of the Gambino crime family, outside his Staten Island home on Wednesday night, detectives naturally examined the possibility that the killing may have stemmed from his role atop one of New York’s five Mafia families.But after the arrest on Saturday of a 24-year-old man who lives with his parents, it appears the old-school crime figure may have been the victim of an angry young man with a gun and a grudge, but apparently no mob ties.Some law enforcement officials have said they are looking at the possibility that the alleged killer, Anthony A. Comello, had a romantic interest in one of Mr. Cali’s female relatives, and that the crime boss had told him to stay away. But the Police Department’s chief of detectives, Dermot F. Shea, said the motive was still unclear, and detectives were examining “multiple angles.”Mr. Comello’s arrest was in some ways a sign of the times in an era when the city’s mob clans have become accustomed to a smaller, less powerful role in the criminal and economic culture. Weakened over several decades by a campaign of prosecutions, the Mafia has become less likely to resort to violence, even as gun violence and mass shootings have become a common occurrence in the United States.Mr. Comello was arrested at a home owned by his family in Brick, N.J., on Saturday and is being held in the Ocean County jail. He is expected to be returned to Staten Island, where prosecutors have already prepared murder charges, according to a computerized court database. On Sunday afternoon, the police had blocked off all foot and car traffic on the roadway near the New Jersey home.Efforts to reach a lawyer for Mr. Comello were unsuccessful, and a family member declined to comment.Detectives have a recording of the killing from a security camera outside Mr. Cali’s home, and Mr. Comello’s fingerprints matched those that were lifted from a license plate the gunman picked up and handed to Mr. Cali before opening fire, according to the police.Mr. Comello, a 2012 graduate of Tottenville High School, lived with his parents in the Eltingville section of Staten Island, neighbors said.“He would plow the snow for us,” said Victor Ujeck, a neighbor. “I’ve seen his parents numerous times — also very nice people.”“I would never imagine he could have done this,” Mr. Ujeck added. “I was shocked.”Didar Janid, 46, works in the Campos deli a few blocks from the suspect’s home on Staten Island and said he had known Mr. Comello for about eight years. Mr. Comello would stop by every couple weeks to buy Marlboro cigarettes, Mr. Janid said.“He was a little bit aggressive,” Mr. Janid said, adding “a little loud.”But he was mellowing, Mr. Janid said, and the accusations he now faces stunned the shopkeeper.“I didn’t see nothing abnormal when I saw him,” he said. “I can’t think even that he could be doing this.”From the start, the shooting bore few of the hallmarks of a Mafia assassination, which generally involves a team of assassins and multiple cars to make a quick escape.But the attacker is suspected of driving a pickup truck to Mr. Cali’s home in the Todt Hill section of Staten Island, a neighborhood of narrow winding streets filled with police surveillance cameras and license plate readers. The truck was then backed into Mr. Cali’s Cadillac Escalade, a collision that knocked off a license plate, police officials said on Saturday.He then rang the doorbell of Mr. Cali’s home, allowing the surveillance camera to capture an image of his face, the police said.Mr. Cali came out to the street to talk, and after a minute of conversation, the gunman pulled out a 9-millimeter pistol and fired repeatedly into Mr. Cali’s body, mortally wounding him as he apparently tried to crawl to safety beneath the pickup truck.The killing of a Gambino crime family senior leader — a Sicilian-born Old World mob figure who the authorities have said was respected as a force on both sides of the Atlantic — in a wealthy part of Staten Island initially sent a seismic jolt through the underworld and in law enforcement.But any fear that these were the first shots in a either bloody war between Mafia families or a bitter internecine conflict within the Gambino clan appear to be short-lived. Nonetheless, Chief Shea emphasized that detectives were still working to determine a clear motive.“Let me reiterate: This is far from over. We are at the beginning stages of this investigation,” he said at a news briefing at 1 Police Plaza.Police and court officials said on Sunday that it was unclear whether Mr. Comello would waive extradition from New Jersey, or when he would be returned to Staten Island to be arraigned.The entry in the New York State Court database that on Saturday listed the charges against him and other details of his case said his next court appearance would be before Justice Charles M. Troia, of State Supreme Court in Staten Island. But by Sunday morning, the entire entry had been removed without explanation.Reporting was contributed by Ashley Southall, Laura Dimon, Sean Piccoli and Karen DeMasters.AdvertisementSupported byBy Charlotte Graham-McLayCHRISTCHURCH, New Zealand — Lamenting that “the world has been stuck in a vicious cycle of extremism breeding extremism,” Prime Minister Jacinda Ardern of New Zealand said at a national memorial service for the Christchurch attack victims on Friday that the dangerous cycle “must end.”Ms. Ardern’s call for a collective global response to violence and terrorism — based in “our humanity” — came two weeks after a gunman killed 50 worshipers in attacks on two mosques in the city.Her speech reflected questions that New Zealanders have been wrestling with as the shock of the attack has begun to fade: namely, how deeply extremist sentiments have taken root in the country, and how to prevent such violence from happening again.“The ugliest of viruses can exist in places they are not welcome,” Ms. Ardern said, adding that racism, violence, extremism and assaults on freedom of worship were “not welcome here.”An estimated 20,000 people attended the event in Hagley Park, not far from one of the mosques that were targeted on March 15. Security was tight; buses were used to block off all nearby roads, with cordons guarded by armed police units and officers circulating through the crowd. While the service was broadcast at simultaneous events around New Zealand, some gatherings were canceled amid security fears and overstretched police resources.Amid the hard questions at the service, there was also celebration of survival — and faith. Fariz Ahmed, a wheelchair-bound man whose wife, Husna Ahmed, ran back into Al Noor mosque in hope of saving him and was killed, spoke on behalf of those in the mosques who lived through the attack.“I cannot deny the fact that he is my human brother,” Mr. Ahmed said of the man who killed his wife. “I do not hate him. I cannot hate him. I cannot hate anyone.”Along with dignitaries from 59 countries — including Australia’s prime minister, Scott Morrison — the survivors and families of the victims sat in a fenced-off area at the front of the event. Some could not attend, including 22 victims of the attacks who remain hospitalized as they recover from injuries.For some, the memorial service came as their extended families — who had traveled to Christchurch from around the world — began to depart, leaving them to confront new realities.The evening before the service, Ambreen Naeem sat in the living room of her sister’s home in suburban Christchurch as cooking smells lingered and her 5-year-old son played nearby. Friends dropped by with about 20 meals for the family’s freezer.One important task for Ms. Naeem, 44, will be learning to drive. Both her husband, Naeem Rashid, 51, and her eldest son, Talha Naeem, 21, were killed at Al Noor mosque. Mr. Rashid, a university lecturer, has become known for having tried to wrestle the gunman’s weapon from him.“He had a true faith and a love for people throughout his life,” Ms. Naeem said.After Friday’s service, some in the crowd wandered across the park to Al Noor mosque, where mounds of flowers, paper garlands and mementos encircled trees and sat piled against the mosque’s front fence.As usual, worshipers were arriving for Friday Prayer; it was the first held at the mosque since the terror attack, and everything was different. Armed police officers guarded a closed gate, and members of the public stood outside reading notes and tributes.Habib Ullah, one of the worshipers, said the main room of the mosque was still being refurbished — carpet had not yet been laid — but people still turned out for prayer. There was a sense of family, but a sense, too, that the survivors of the attacks had much more left to face.“They will need everything,” said Mr. Ullah, a member of Christchurch’s Pakistani community who has been helping organize assistance for the victims’ families. “They will need thousands and thousands of things.”Nine Pakistani nationals were killed in the attack, and Mr. Ullah said most were men between the ages of 30 and 40 who had children.Among the chief concerns of their widows, he said, were paying rent, finding means of income, and clarifying their status as immigrants — all of which the government has promised assistance for.However, some did not know enough English to fill out government forms and did not have access to their husbands’ bank accounts. The Muslim Association of Canterbury was forming a group at the Al Noor mosque to connect families with services.Mustafa Farouk, the president of the Federation of Islamic Associations of New Zealand, said Muslim communities consumed by both grief and gratitude for New Zealanders’ response to the attacks must now have a difficult conversation with the rest of the country.“We will get down to our really serious business of how we can make sure this doesn’t happen in our country again,” he said. “There’s an underbelly of some kind of racism that exists, but we want to collectively stamp it out.”Ms. Ardern on Monday announced a major investigation into the terrorist attack, with government agencies — including those responsible for security — among those under scrutiny. Questions will include whether New Zealand’s spy agencies had Muslim communities under closer examination than white nationalist groups.She has also taken steps to overhaul New Zealand’s gun laws and demanded actions from the social media platforms where the alleged gunman, Brenton Tarrant, was able to stream footage of the attack.But she has urged New Zealanders, too, to confront racism where they see it.“We each hold the power, in our words and in our actions, in our daily acts of kindness,” she told the crowd at Hagley Park, adding that that the legacy of the attack should be “to be the nation we believe ourselves to be.”AdvertisementSupported byBy Richard Pйrez-Peсa and Claire MosesThe Dutch police said on Tuesday that they were still considering terrorism as a motive for a deadly shooting on a tram in the city of Utrecht based partly on a note they discovered.The shooting on Monday, which left at least three people dead and seven injured, and an ensuing manhunt prompted heightened security and sent ripples of fear through the Netherlands. A 37-year-old immigrant from Turkey was arrested Monday night.People who know the suspect, Gokmen Tanis, and family members in Turkey quoted by news organizations there, had said on Monday that they believed the assault grew out of some kind of domestic dispute.But the police said they had so far found no links between Mr. Tanis and the three people killed on the tram.“Thus far, a terrorist motive is being strongly considered,” the national police said on Tuesday.“The reason for this, among other things, is a note found in the getaway car,” they said, without elaboration. “Other motives aren’t being ruled out. These are being investigated as well.”The shooting jarred a country where gun violence is rare, and where there has not been the kinds of major terrorist attacks that have rocked Belgium, Britain, France and Germany in recent years. It came just days after a gunman, thought to be a white nationalist, killed 50 people at two mosques in Christchurch, New Zealand, prompting fears of either copycat attacks against Muslims or retaliatory attacks by them.The police said on Tuesday that they had found a firearm when Mr. Tanis was arrested. They did not say what kind of gun it was, or whether it was the weapon used in the attack.Mr. Tanis had been arrested several times before and was facing a rape charge. People who knew him from the Kanaleneiland neighborhood of Utrecht, home to many immigrants from Turkey and Morocco, described him as erratic, troubled and aggressive.Bart Nitrauw, a spokesman for the local prosecutor’s office, said in a phone interview: “We can’t say anything about what was in the letter, just that it was one of the reasons for the suspicion of a terror motive — the letter in the car, and what we found at the place where the suspect was arrested.”“In this stage of the investigation, we think it was one shooter,” Mr. Nitrauw said.The Utrecht shooting took place around 10:30 a.m. near 24 October Square, and the gunman fled. The police said the theft of a car at gunpoint nearby was tied to the attack, but the details were unclear.Three people — a 19-year-old woman and two men, ages 28 and 49 — were killed in the attack, and seven others were injured, three of them seriously. Officials have not publicly identified any of the victims.Unsure of the motive, how many people were involved, or where the killer was, the authorities quickly ramped up security and raised the terrorist threat assessment in Utrecht Province to the highest level. For several hours, the tram service was shut down around Utrecht, people were told to remain indoors, schools were locked down and officers in body armor were deployed to police stations, airports and other key locations.In addition to Mr. Tanis, two men in their 20s were arrested on Monday in connection with the shooting, but the police acknowledged that it was not clear what role, if any, they may have played in it. They said on Tuesday that the men, whom they did not identify, were still in custody and were being questioned. Another man was arrested on Tuesday night.Patrick Kingsley contributed reporting.AdvertisementSupported byBy ReutersWASHINGTON — The U.S. Supreme Court on Thursday handed President Donald Trump a victory by rejecting for the second time in three days a bid by gun rights activists to block his new ban on "bump stock" attachments that enable semi-automatic weapons to fire rapidly.The policy, embraced by Trump in the wake of an October 2017 massacre in Las Vegas in which bump stocks were used, went into effect on Tuesday. The ban is a rare recent instance of gun control at the federal level in a country that has experienced a succession of mass shootings.The court in a brief order refused to grant a temporary stay sought by the group Gun Owners of America and others in a lawsuit filed in Michigan challenging the ban while litigation continues. Chief Justice John Roberts on Tuesday rejected a similar bid to block the policy in a separate legal challenge brought in Washington by individual gun owners and gun rights groups including the Firearms Policy Foundation and Florida Carry Inc. Michael Hammond, Gun Owners of America's legislative counsel, said many owners of the estimated 500,000 bump stocks in the United States would refuse to turn them in despite the ban and related criminal penalties. People caught in possession of bump stocks could face up to 10 years in prison under the policy."GOA will continue to fight the issue in the court system, as the case now returns to the lower courts. We remain convinced that the courts will consign this unlawful, unconstitutional ban to the trash bin of history, where it belongs," Hammond said in a statement, using the group's acronym.A Justice Department spokeswoman said the administration was pleased with the high court's action.Bump stocks use a gun's recoil to bump its trigger, enabling a semiautomatic weapon to fire hundreds of rounds per minute, which can transform it into a machine gun. The Justice Department's regulation followed the lead of many states and retailers that imposed stricter limits on sales of guns and accessories after a deadly shooting at a Florida high school in February 2018.LAS VEGAS SHOOTINGTrump pledged to ban bump stocks soon after a gunman used them in a spree that killed 58 people at a country music festival in Las Vegas. The Justice Department on Dec. 18 announced plans to implement the policy on March 26.The FBI said in January it had found no clear motive for the 64-year-old Las Vegas gunman, Stephen Paddock, in the deadliest mass shooting in modern U.S. history.In the Michigan case, a federal judge already has ruled in favor of the administration. The Cincinnati, Ohio-based 6th U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals refused to put the ban on hold pending appeal. Other plaintiffs in that case include the Gun Owners Foundation, the Virginia Citizens Defense League and three individual gun owners.In the Washington case, a federal judge also upheld the ban, prompting the gun rights advocates to appeal to the U.S. Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit. That court has heard oral arguments but has not yet ruled.Those challenging the policy have argued that the U.S. Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives (ATF) lacks the authority to equate bump stocks with machine guns. One of the laws at the center of the legal dispute was written more than 80 years ago, when Congress restricted access to machine guns during the heyday of American gangsters' use of "tommy guns."AdvertisementSupported byBy The Associated PressLOS ANGELES — The Latest on the shooting death of rapper Nipsey Hussle (all times local):10:45 p.m.Los Angeles police have identified a suspect in the killing of rapper Nipsey Hussle.Police say they are looking for 29-year-old Eric Holder, who is suspected of shooting Hussle Sunday afternoon outside his clothing store in South Los Angeles.A news release states detectives suspect that Holder fled in a 2016 Chevy Cruze that was waiting in an adjacent alley. The car's license plate is 7RJD742.Los Angeles Police Chief Michel Moore plans a news conference for Tuesday morning to discuss updates in the investigation.___10:20 p.m.Authorities now say a total of 19 people have been taken to hospitals — two in critical condition — after a vigil for slain rapper Nipsey Hussle turned violent.Police say 300 to 400 people were at the scene where Hussle was gunned down when a fight erupted in the crowd Monday night.Earlier reports of gunshots were false but many people were trampled as the crowd ran away.Fire Department spokeswoman Margaret Stewart says 19 people were taken to hospitals. Two were critical: a person who was struck by a car and another person with a "penetrating injury," although it's unclear whether that person was stabbed or cut by broken glass. Two other injuries were serious and 15 were considered non-life threatening.Dozens of police moved in to clear the crowd.___9:05 p.m.A vigil at the Los Angeles site where rapper Nipsey Hussle was killed has turned violent and authorities are treating several people after a possible attack that stampeded the crowd.Fire Department spokeswoman Margaret Stewart says firefighters received a report Monday night of a possible shooting or stabbing and found one person critically wounded.She says several other people are being examined and appear to have sustained "trample" injuries as the crowd ran away.KCAL-TV showed police carrying a man to an ambulance.Police then moved in in force and dispersed a large crowd that had gathered outside Hussle's South Los Angeles clothing store, where the 33-year-old was killed and two others injured by a gunman Sunday.The killer remains at large.___3 p.m.Investigators say rapper Nipsey Hussle died from gunshot wounds to his head and torso.The Los Angeles County coroner released the findings after completing an autopsy Monday on Hussle, whose real name is Ermias Asghedom.The autopsy ruled Hussle's death a homicide.The 33-year-old was standing outside the clothing store he opened in the Los Angeles neighborhood Sunday afternoon where he grew up when a gunman opened fire, killing him and injuring two others.Police have not announced any arrests or identified any suspects in the case.Hussle was a beloved figure both his neighborhood and the hip-hop community, and his death brought mourning and tributes from politicians , musicians and professional athletes.___1:20 p.m.Nipsey Hussle is being mourned for much more than his music.The rapper was shot and killed Sunday in the same Los Angeles neighborhood where he grew up. California Sen. Kamala Harris and LA Mayor Eric Garcetti are among those paying tribute to him for his efforts to improve the impoverished Crenshaw community.Hussle opened a store called Marathon Clothing that he hoped could be a seed for development. He was standing near the business when he was slain. Police have not identified a motive or suspect.AdvertisementSupported byThe ShiftBy Kevin RooseBefore entering a mosque in Christchurch, New Zealand, the site of one of the deadliest mass murders in the country’s history, a gunman paused to endorse a YouTube star in a video that appeared to capture the shooting.“Remember, lads, subscribe to PewDiePie,” he said.To an untrained eye, this would have seemed like a bizarre detour.But the people watching the video stream recognized it as something entirely different: a meme.Like many of the things done before the attack on Friday — like the posting of a 74-page manifesto that named a specific internet figure — the PewDiePie endorsement served two purposes. For followers of the killer’s videostream, it was a kind of satirical Easter egg. “Subscribe to PewDiePie,” which began as a grass-roots online attempt to keep the popular YouTube entertainer from being dethroned as the site’s most-followed account, has morphed into a kind of all-purpose cultural bat signal for the young and internet-absorbed.For everyone else, it was a booby trap, a joke designed to ensnare unsuspecting people and members of the media into taking it too literally. The goal, if there was one, may have been to pull a popular internet figure into a fractious blame game and inflame political tensions everywhere. In a tweet early Friday morning, PewDiePie, whose real name is Felix Kjellberg, said, “I feel absolutely sickened having my name uttered by this person.”New Zealand authorities have identified an accused gunman as Brenton Harrison Tarrant, 28, but it remains unclear if he acted alone.The details that have emerged about the Christchurch shooting — at least 49 were killed in an attack on two mosques — are horrifying. But a surprising thing about it is how unmistakably online the violence was, and how aware the shooter on the videostream appears to have been about how his act would be viewed and interpreted by distinct internet subcultures.In some ways, it felt like a first — an internet-native mass shooting, conceived and produced entirely within the irony-soaked discourse of modern extremism.The attack was teased on Twitter, announced on the online message board 8chan and broadcast live on Facebook. The footage was then replayed endlessly on YouTube, Twitter and Reddit, as the platforms scrambled to take down the clips nearly as fast as new copies popped up to replace them. In a statement on Twitter, Facebook said it had “quickly removed both the shooter’s Facebook and Instagram accounts and the video,” and was taking down instances of praise or support for the shooting. YouTube said it was “working vigilantly to remove any violent footage” of the attack. Reddit said in a statement that it was taking down “content containing links to the video stream or manifesto.”transcriptHosted by Michael Barbaro, produced by Annie Brown, Paige Cowett, Michael Simon Johnson and Jonathan Wolfe, and edited by Lisa TobinOne of the deadliest mass shootings in the country’s history bore the stamp of online extremism.michael barbaroFrom The New York Times, I’m Michael Barbaro. This is “The Daily.” Today: The death toll from a mass shooting targeting Muslims in New Zealand rose from 49 to 50 over the weekend, after officials found another body at the Al Noor Mosque, where most of the deaths occurred. Kevin Roose on why this attack was made by and for the internet. It’s Monday, March 18.archived recording 1Farid, would you mind just telling us one more time of what happened in the mosque?archived recording (farid ahmed)When shooting started, it started from the hallway. So I could hear, so [IMITATING GUNFIRE] Then magazine is finished. Then he refill again and came back again.archived recording 2I saw all the plastering coming down from the wall and the ceiling.archived recording 3O.K.archived recording 4And that was when I knew it was from the gun shot. So immediately —archived recording 5When he was shooting at me — and there’s a fence here. He was shooting at me. I ducked here and I come here. And I find the gun somewhere here and a dead body here as well.archived recording 6I feel now — I repeated the story a lot. But this is a good idea to say that —michael barbaroOver the weekend, through dozens of interviews with survivors, a story began to emerge of what happened on Friday inside the mosques in Christchurch.archived recording 1Was that your regular mosque or were you visiting that mosque?archived recording (farid ahmed)Regular mosque. Yeah.michael barbaroThe shooting began at the Al Noor Mosque, where Farid Ahmed and his wife, Husna, who had moved to New Zealand from Bangladesh, were attending afternoon prayer.archived recording (farid ahmed)The ladies’ room was on the right-hand side. So all the ladies were there. And my wife is always a leading person for ladies. She had a philosophy. She always used to tell me, I don’t want to hold any position. And I want to prove that you don’t need to have any position to help people. She was like a magnet. And exactly the same thing happened. The shooting started. She started instructing several ladies and children to get out. And she was screaming, Come this way, hurry up,” this and that. You know, she was doing all these things. And then she took many children and ladies into a safe garden. Then she was coming back, checking about me, because I was in the wheelchair.archived recordingDo you mind me asking why you’re in a wheelchair?archived recording (farid ahmed)I was run over by a car. He was the drunk driver. And it was 1998 and it happened.archived recordingI’m sorry.archived recording (farid ahmed)It’s O.K.archived recordingSo she went out of the mosque and then she came back in?archived recording (farid ahmed)Yeah. She was coming back. And once she was approaching the gate, then she was shot.archived recordingShe came back into to fetch you?archived recording (farid ahmed)Yes. Yes.michael barbaroFarid learned hours later that Husna was one of the 42 people police say were killed at the mosque.archived recording (farid ahmed)So she was busy with saving lives, you know, forgetting about herself. And that’s what she is. She always has been like this.michael barbaroSix minutes after firing the first shot, and as police raced toward Al Noor Mosque, the shooter drove to a second mosque, the Linwood Mosque, four miles east.damien caveAnd tell me — I’m sorry, what was your name?abdul azizAbdul Aziz.damien caveAnd the mosque that you go to, is it mixed, Pakistani? I mean, that mosque — who was there that day?abdul azizThat mosque, we got from every race, from Malaysia, from Philippines, from Afghanistan, from every sort of country.michael barbaroMy colleague Damien Cave spoke with Abdul Aziz, who was praying at the Linwood Mosque with his four sons when he heard gunshots. Aziz ran toward the shots, grabbing the first thing he could find, a credit card machine, which he flung at the attacker. The shooter dropped a gun, and Aziz picked it up.abdul azizAnd I pick up the gun and I checked that it had no bullets. And I was screaming to the guy, “Come here! I’m here.” I just wanted to put more focus on me than go inside the masjid. But unfortunately he just got himself to the masjid, and I heard more shooting sound. And I see the shooting inside the masjid.michael barbaroMoments later, when the gunman went to his car to retrieve more weapons, Aziz followed him.abdul azizThis guy tried to get more gun from his car. When he see me, I’m chasing with the gun. He sat on his car. And I just got that gun and throw in his window like an arrow and blast his window. And he thought I probably shot him or something. And the guns come back and just, he drives off.michael barbaroAziz used the gun to shatter the gunman’s car window, which many witnesses believe is what prompted him to speed away rather than re-enter the mosque and kill more people.abdul azizAny brother would do the same thing. So if you was there, you would do the same thing.damien caveHave you — can I ask you —michael barbaroMinutes later, video shows the suspect being pulled by police from his car two and a half miles down the road, where two more guns and homemade explosives were also found.archived recording (jacinda ardern)I want to speak specifically about the firearms used in this terrorist act. They were two semi-automatic weapons and two shotguns.michael barbaroOn Sunday, New Zealand’s prime minister, Jacinda Ardern, said that the suspect, an Australian citizen, would be tried in New Zealand, and that her government would meet today to discuss the country’s gun laws.archived recording (jacinda ardern)I can tell you one thing right now. Our gun laws will change.michael barbaroFunerals for all 50 victims are expected to be held in the coming days.archived recording (jacinda ardern)As the police commissioner confirmed this morning, 50 people have been killed and 34 people remain in Christchurch Hospital, 12 of them in the intensive care unit in critical condition. A 4-year-old girl remains in critical condition at Starship Hospital in Auckland.michael barbaroIslamic burial rituals typically require bodies to be buried as soon as possible, and usually within 24 hours. But New Zealand authorities say that the process of identifying the victims and returning them to their families could take several more days.archived recording (jacinda ardern)It is the expectation that all bodies will be returned to families by Wednesday. I want to finish by saying that while the nation grapples with a form of grief and anger that we have not experienced before, we are seeking answers.michael barbaroKevin, I want to talk to you about the moments before this mass shooting began. What do you know about those?kevin rooseWell, what we know comes from a video that was live-streamed on Facebook while this was all happening by the gunman. He taped himself in the car on his way over to the mosque, listening to music, talking. And right before he gets out of the car and goes into the mosque, he pauses and says, “Remember, lads, subscribe to PewDiePie.” And when I heard that, I just, like, I knew, oh, this is something different than we’re used to.michael barbaroWhat do you mean? What is PewDiePie, and why does that reference matter?kevin rooseSo PewDiePie is this really popular YouTube personality. He has the most subscribers of anyone on YouTube. Some people think he’s offensive. Some people really like him. He’s got this whole fan base. And a few months ago, his fans started sort of spamming this phrase, “subscribe to PewDiePie,” in an attempt to kind of keep him from being eclipsed by another account that was going to have more followers than him.michael barbaroO.K.kevin rooseSo it sort of became this competition, and then it became this joke. And now “subscribe to PewDiePie” is just kind of like a thing that people say on certain parts of the internet. It’s just kind of like a signifier, like, I understand the internet, you understand the internet. This is how we’re going to signal to each other that we understand the internet.michael barbaroO.K. And this is what he’s signaling in saying that?kevin rooseYeah. So I have that in my head. And then I see all these other signs that something is weirdly kind of internet-y about all of this. Like, there’s this post on 8chan, which is kind of like a scummy message board that lots of extremists and weirdos go on. And in the post, the gunman links to the Facebook stream before it happens.michael barbaroThe Facebook stream that he will record of the massacre itself.kevin rooseExactly. And then he pastes a bunch of links to copies of his manifesto. He has a 74-page manifesto that he wrote. And some of this stuff was fairly standard hard-right ideology, very fascist, very white nationalist. Muslims are kind of like the primary target for white nationalists around the world, calling them invaders, saying they’re taking over. You know, this is a sort of classic white nationalist trope. And then there was all this kind of meta-humor, saying that he was radicalized by video games, which is another thing that internet extremists love to sort of troll the media with. Like, you know, he posted previews of his gun on Twitter. The whole thing just kind of felt like it just set this shooting up as, like, almost an internet performance, like it was native to the internet, and it was born out of and aimed into this culture of extremely concentrated internet radicalism.michael barbaroBut underneath it all is white nationalism, white supremacy, whatever you want to call it, a kind of racism that has always existed. So why does the internet’s role in this feel especially different to you?kevin rooseI want to make clear that this is not just a tech story, right. There’s a real core of anti-Muslim violence here, Islamophobia, far-right ideology. That’s all very, very important, and we should focus there. But I think there’s this other piece that we really need to start grappling with as a society, which is that there’s an entire generation of people who have been exposed to radical extremist politics online, who have been fed a steady diet of this stuff. It’s transformed by the tools that the internet provides. So I’ve talked to a lot of white nationalists, unfortunately. And when I asked them how they got into this, a lot of them will say, I found a couple of videos on YouTube. And then I found some more videos on YouTube, and it kind of started opening my eyes to this ideology. And pretty soon, you’re a white nationalist. And that’s different from, historically, how extremism has been born. I mean —michael barbaroWhat do you mean?kevin rooseYou know, if you go to the library and you take out a book about World War II, right as you’re about to finish it, the librarian doesn’t say, here, here’s a copy of “Mein Kampf.” You might like this. There’s not this kind of algorithmic nudge toward the extremes that really exists on social media and has a demonstrated effect on people.michael barbaroWalk me through this algorithmic nudge. I want to make sure I understand what you’re referring to.kevin rooseThis is pretty specific to YouTube, but that’s where a lot of this stuff happens. So on YouTube there’s this recommendations bar. And after a video plays, another one follows it. And historically, the way that this algorithm that chose which video came next worked is it would try to keep you on the site for as long as possible, try to maximize the number of videos you watch, the amount of time you spent, which would maximize the ad revenue. Right. It would maximize lots of things. And so it turned out that what kept people on the site for longer and longer periods of time was gradually moving them toward more extreme content. You start at a video about spaceships, and you’d end on something that was questioning whether the moon landing was a hoax. Or you’d start at a video about some piece of U.S. history and, you know, five videos later you’re at kind of a 9/11 conspiracy theory video. Just these kind of gradual tugs toward the stuff that the algorithm decides is going to keep you hooked. And in a lot of cases, that means making it a little more extreme.michael barbaroAnd what’s the white nationalist version of this nudge?kevin rooseThere’s a ton of white nationalism on YouTube. YouTube, from the conversations I’ve had with people in this movement, is sort of central to how these ideas spread. Like, you start watching some videos about politics. Maybe they’re about Trump. Then you start watching some videos by sort of more fringey, kind of far-right characters, and all of a sudden you are watching someone’s video who is espousing open white nationalism. And you’re not exactly sure how you got there, but you keep watching. And for some percentage of people, you internalize that.michael barbaroSo it’s a kind of computer-driven on-ramp or onboarding.kevin rooseYeah. And this has been studied. Like, this is a well-documented phenomenon, and YouTube has done some things to try to fix the algorithm and make it so that it’s not sending you down these rabbit holes. But it’s still a pretty observable effect.michael barbaroAnd what’s your understanding of why these platforms didn’t act years ago to police, to delete these hate-filled videos, this content that through these algorithmic nudges you described directs people further and further towards extremism?kevin rooseThey had no reason to. I mean, they were making a lot of money. They saw their responsibility as providing a platform for free speech. They were very hesitant to kind of seem like they were censoring certain political views. They were committed to free speech. And I think that’s kind of the original sin that’s baked into all of this. It’s like, part of how this was born is this idea that we just provide the platform, and if people signal to us that they like something, we’ll show them more of it. And maybe we’ll show them something that pushes the envelope a little bit more. And we’re not optimizing for truth. We’re not optimizing for things that we think are healthy for people. We’re just giving them what they want. And they’re trying to change that now, some of them. There’s a reckoning now where these platforms have come to understand that this is the role that they’ve played and that they’re trying to correct it. But there’s a lot of people who have already been sucked up into this world, who have been radicalized, and who may not be coming back. It’s going to be very, very tricky to slow the thing that has been set into motion. And I don’t even know if it’s possible.michael barbaroAt this point.kevin rooseYeah. These platforms played a pivotal role, have played, are playing a pivotal role in how these extremist groups gather momentum and share their ideas and coalesce into real movements and grow. And, like, that’s the part that I don’t think they’ve completely reckoned with, and I don’t think we’ve completely reckoned with. I think we’re still sort of coming to terms with the fact that there’s this pipeline for extremism. And we know how it runs. We know where it happens. We know who’s involved. And we know that sometimes it has these devastating, tragic consequences. What I’ve been thinking is just how inevitable this feels.michael barbaroWhat do you mean?kevin rooseI’ve been watching these people in these kind of dark corners of the internet multiplying and hardening and becoming more extreme, and, like, it was inevitable. This is the nightmare. Right? This is the worst possible version of something that could happen and be broadcast on the internet. And it’s not getting better. And it’s going to be with us for a long time.michael barbaroBut it also strikes me that in a way, and in a pretty awful way, this gunman and the way he has approached this massacre is kind of reflecting back how the internet functions. Because I’m thinking about him making a video of this attack, which, in a sense, means he’s making content that feeds that loop that we’re discussing, perhaps feeds this algorithm that possibly fed him — that he’s basically putting something back into the system.kevin rooseYeah. And I saw this happening on these platforms, like, in real time. So —michael barbaroYou mean on Friday?kevin rooseYeah. So if you went onto 8chan, which is the website where all the stuff was posted, the comments below this post were all about, let’s save these videos so that we can re-upload them somewhere else —michael barbaroWow.kevin roose— in case 8chan gets taken down. Let’s spread this. Let’s seed this all over the internet. I mean, there’s no doubt in my mind that this guy was very aware of how his video and his manifesto would kind of filter through the internet and get refracted and picked up and analyzed. This was a very deliberate act, not only of murder and violence, but also of media creation. I mean, this was, in a way, engineered for internet virality.michael barbaroAnd then it did go viral.kevin rooseYes. Twitter and Facebook and YouTube, all the platforms, tried to take down the video as soon as it popped up, but it just kept popping back up. It’s very hard to contain. So it’s still out there. I mean, yeah, I’m looking at, right now, something posted, you know, six hours ago. It’s the video of the shooting, and it’s still up. And I don’t think it’ll ever fully disappear.michael barbaroKevin, thank you very much.kevin rooseThank you.Even the language used to describe the attack before the fact framed it as an act of internet activism. In a post on 8chan, the shooting was referred to as a “real life effort post.” An image was titled “screw your optics,” a reference to a line posted by the man accused in the Pittsburgh synagogue shooting that later became a kind of catchphrase among neo-Nazis. And the manifesto — a wordy mixture of white nationalist boilerplate, fascist declarations and references to obscure internet jokes — seems to have been written from the bottom of an algorithmic rabbit hole.It would be unfair to blame the internet for this. Motives are complex, lives are complicated, and we don’t yet know all the details about the shooting. Anti-Muslim violence is not an online phenomenon, and white nationalist hatred long predates 4Chan and Reddit.But we do know that the design of internet platforms can create and reinforce extremist beliefs. Their recommendation algorithms often steer users toward edgier content, a loop that results in more time spent on the app, and more advertising revenue for the company. Their hate speech policies are weakly enforced. And their practices for removing graphic videos — like the ones that circulated on social media for hours after the Christchurch shooting, despite the companies’ attempts to remove them — are inconsistent at best.We also know that many recent acts of offline violence bear the internet’s imprint. Robert Bowers, the man charged with killing 11 people and wounding six others at the Tree of Life synagogue in Pittsburgh, was a frequent user of Gab, a social media platform beloved by extremists. Cesar Sayoc, the man charged with sending explosives to prominent critics of President Trump last year, was immersed in a cesspool of right-wing Facebook and Twitter memes.People used to conceive of “online extremism” as distinct from the extremism that took form in the physical world. If anything, the racism and bigotry on internet message boards felt a little less dangerous than the prospect of Ku Klux Klan marches or skinhead rallies.[Read about the challenges of reporting on a shooting that was set up “as almost an internet performance.”]Now, online extremism is just regular extremism on steroids. There is no offline equivalent of the experience of being algorithmically nudged toward a more strident version of your existing beliefs, or having an invisible hand steer you from gaming videos to neo-Nazism. The internet is now the place where the seeds of extremism are planted and watered, where platform incentives guide creators toward the ideological poles, and where people with hateful and violent beliefs can find and feed off one another.So the pattern continues. People become fluent in the culture of online extremism, they make and consume edgy memes, they cluster and harden. And once in a while, one of them erupts.In the coming days, we should attempt to find meaning in the lives of the victims of the Christchurch attack, and not glorify the attention-grabbing tactics of the gunman. We should also address the specific horror of anti-Muslim violence.At the same time, we need to understand and address the poisonous pipeline of extremism that has emerged over the past several years, whose ultimate effects are impossible to quantify but clearly far too big to ignore. It’s not going away, and it’s not particularly getting better. We will feel it for years to come.Kevin Roose is a columnist for Business and a writer-at-large for The New York Times Magazine. His column, “The Shift,” examines the intersection of technology, business and culture. @kevinroose • FacebookAdvertisementSupported byBy Alan FeuerA huge bonfire was burning at Joaquнn Guzmбn Loera’s mountain hide-out one night when the crime lord’s bodyguards brought him two enemy soldiers slumped across the backs of two A.T.V.s. The men — members of the Zetas, a rival cartel — had been tortured for hours and many of their bones had already been broken. The soldiers, as listless as “rag dolls,” according to a gunman who was there, could barely move.In the glow of the firelight, Mr. Guzmбn ordered the Zetas to be placed beside the flames and then approached them with a rifle. Pressing its barrel to the first man’s head, the kingpin cursed the soldier’s mother and abruptly pulled the trigger. After he had done the same to the second, he ordered his assassins to dispose of the bodies.“Put them in the bonfire,” the gunman recalled Mr. Guzmбn saying. “I don’t want any bones to remain.”This morbid story was recounted on Thursday by Isaias Valdez Rios, a former cartel killer, at Mr. Guzmбn’s drug trial in New York. Though dozens of murders have been described in court since the trial began 10 weeks ago, Judge Brian M. Cogan has sought to keep a tight leash on the gore. But Mr. Valdez’s testimony was exceptionally gruesome and marked the first time that jurors heard explicitly graphic examples of the bloodshed that Mexican cartels have long been known for. It was also the first time that evidence was shown that depicted the violence personally committed by the defendant, known to the world as El Chapo.In three grueling hours on the witness stand, Mr. Valdez spellbound the jury in Federal District Court in Brooklyn with wrenching accounts from the front lines of Mexico’s bloody drug wars. He spoke about running someone down in his truck during a frantic highway gunfight. He spoke about murdering an informant in the earshot of women and children. He spoke about burying a bound and blindfolded man, who was still alive, on Mr. Guzmбn’s orders.As the prosecution’s last cooperating witness, Mr. Valdez’s appearance on the stand suggested that the government’s case was coming to an end. He seemed to have been called to deliver a gut punch to jurors. His testimony — brutal, relentless and unquestionably damaging to Mr. Guzmбn — was a kind of emotional punctuation mark.Mr. Valdez started his account with a vivid description of his first day working in what he described as Mr. Guzmбn’s “security circle.” On that day in 2004, he recalled, a man he knew as Fantasma — one of the kingpin’s bodyguards whose nickname translates to “ghost” — picked him up in Culiacбn and took him to an airstrip where he boarded a plane for a short flight into the Sierra Madre mountains. When Mr. Valdez landed at Mr. Guzmбn’s hide-out, someone walked up to him, he said, and placed a bulletproof vest, an AK-47 and a rocket-propelled grenade launcher in his hands.The rules of his new workplace were eventually explained to him.He would be on duty for a month, he was told, then off for a month.He would sleep in the dirt outside the kingpin’s cabin.He would be paid 2,000 pesos a month (or a little more than $175).He was never to approach the boss. If the boss wanted to speak with him, he would be summoned.That happened, Mr. Valdez said, 10 or 15 days after he arrived at the encampment known as The Sky. As he approached Mr. Guzmбn, he recalled, the crime lord jocularly asked, “Dude, how you doing?” Mr. Guzmбn wanted to know about his new recruit’s service in the Mexican special forces. He also warned the novice gunman that he had to be especially vigilant in the mountains.“Here,” Mr. Valdez recalled the drug lord saying, “you really have to be on the lookout.”Shortly after, Mr. Valdez, in his first assignment as one of Mr. Guzmбn’s sicarios, or assassins, was ordered to accompany the kingpin’s chief of security, Alejandro Aponte, known as El Negro, to hunt down and execute an informant. Mr. Valdez told jurors that three other killers accompanied him. One was known as El Ocho. The other was nicknamed Mojo Jojo.After the hit team arrived at the informant’s house, Mr. Valdez said, they “subdued” the women and children then found their target hiding in a bedroom. The man was taken to an indoor patio where, apparently desperate, he wrapped his arms around one of its support columns. Mr. Valdez said that Mr. Aponte shot the man first with a burst of automatic gunfire. After he fell to the ground, Mr. Valdez said, another sicario shot him in the head.Then the hit team simply returned to their pickup truck. “We headed toward the mountains,” Mr. Valdez said.A few years later, he recalled, he watched Mr. Guzmбn interrogate — then kill — an ally of his bitter enemies, the Arellano Fйlix brothers. Speaking softly in the silent courtroom, Mr. Valdez recounted how the kingpin had the man brought, bound and blindfolded, to a graveyard in one of his mountain camps. The man had already been tortured so viciously with an iron, he said, that his T-shirt had been soldered into his skin. He also reeked, Mr. Valdez added, from having been locked inside a hen house for days.Although the victim couldn’t see it, he had been placed in front of his own freshly dug grave. Mr. Valdez said Mr. Guzmбn asked the man several questions, and in the middle of an answer, pulled out a .25-caliber pistol and shot him.“Remove his handcuffs and bury him,” he recalled the crime lord saying.But as Mr. Valdez and another gunman bent to fetch the body, they realized the small caliber bullet hadn’t killed the man.AdvertisementSupported byBy ReutersWELLINGTON — Representatives of governments from around the world are expected to attend a national remembrance service in New Zealand on Friday for the 50 victims of a mass shooting at two mosques in Christchurch."This is an event that affected New Zealand deeply. But it was our Muslim New Zealanders who were targeted. So rightly so, that would be reflected in the remembrance service," Prime Minister Jacinda Ardern told a news conference.The Organisation of Islamic Cooperation (OIC) will be represented at the service, but the full list of the attendees from 59 countries was withheld for security reasons, as the country has been on high alert since the March 15 attack.Australia's Prime Minister Scott Morrison, the governor general Peter Cosgrove and opposition leader Bill Shorten will be among foreign leaders attending the service, Ardern said. Heads of state from Pacific countries, including Fiji's President Jioji Konkrote will also be in attendance, she added.The service will be held in Christchurch in Hagley Park, where tens of thousands of New Zealanders have gathered since the attack to mourn the deaths. It will be televised live on state television networks.Britain's Prince William will visit New Zealand next month to honour the victims, his office said.AdvertisementSupported byBy Reuters(Reuters) - The U.S. Supreme Court on Friday handed another setback to gun rights advocates challenging President Donald Trump's ban on "bump stock" devices that enable semi-automatic weapons to fire rapidly.With two conservative justices dissenting, the court refused to temporarily exempt from the ban a group of plaintiffs including the Firearms Policy Foundation while their legal challenge continues to be litigated in Washington.The Supreme Court twice previously rejected requests by gun rights advocates - in the case in the U.S. capital and a similar one in Michigan - to temporarily block the ban while legal challenges proceed in lower courts.The ban, which went into effect on March 26, was embraced by Trump following a 2017 massacre in Las Vegas that killed 58 people in which the gunman used bump stocks.The U.S. Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit had temporarily blocked the ban's enforcement against the specific challengers in the litigation it was handling, but on April 1 ruled in the administration's favor and refused to lift the ban. The challengers then returned to the Supreme Court to try to prevent the policy from applying specifically to them. In Friday's order, Justices Clarence Thomas and Neil Gorsuch said they would have granted the request to exempt the challengers.Bump stocks use a gun's recoil to bump its trigger, enabling a semiautomatic weapon to fire hundreds of rounds per minute, which can transform it into a machine gun.AdvertisementSupported byBy Reuters(Reuters) - Facebook Inc Chief Operating Officer Sheryl Sandberg said on Friday the company was looking to place restrictions on who can go live on its platform based on certain criteria in the aftermath of the Christchurch massacre.The company will monitor who can go "Live" on Facebook depending on factors such as prior community standard violations, Sandberg said in a blog post https://instagram-press.com/blog/2019/03/29/by-working-together-we-can-win-against-hate.A lone gunman killed 50 people at two mosques in New Zealand on March 15, while livestreaming the massacre.Facebook has identified more than 900 different videos showing portions of the 17-minutes of carnage and has used its existing artificial intelligence tools to identify and remove hate groups in Australia and New Zealand, the blog said.Last week, the social networking giant said it removed 1.5 million videos globally that had footage of the New Zealand mosque attack in the first 24 hours after the attack. Earlier this week, one of the main groups representing Muslims in France said it was suing Facebook and YouTube, accusing them of inciting violence by allowing the streaming of the video.Facebook, the world's largest social network with 2.7 billion users, has faced growing discontent over its approach to privacy and user data amid increasing concerns over its advertising practices.AdvertisementSupported byBy ReutersCHRISTCHURCH — "Almost every person we spoke to was in some stage of grief, trauma or shock," says Charlotte Greenfield, the first Reuters correspondent to reach Christchurch, New Zealand, on the night a gunman opened fire in two mosques and killed 50 people."My first priority was to not traumatise anyone again, my second was to gather the information I needed to tell the story accurately and as deeply as possible."The challenge for any journalist covering the massacre was the struggle to remain dispassionate when the country was in shock and people being interviewed had suffered such sudden tragedy. Reuters had a team of nine reporters, photographers and TV journalists in Christchurch to report on the massacre.Greenfield had the added challenge of being a New Zealander. She felt personally closer to events than many other journalists.When she flew into Christchurch that night from Wellington, on one of the last planes to land before flights were stopped for security reasons, Greenfield saw heavily armed policemen at the airport, and heard ambulances wailing and the sound of low-flying helicopters."The only other place I had heard that sound at that intensity was in Kabul, where I had been working in January. That first night, I woke up often, thinking I was back in Afghanistan," says Greenfield, who has also worked in Indonesia, where she covered a 2014 plane crash that killed all 162 on board.She said she struggled the next day to remain calm when interviewing people who had lost loved ones."The way that seemed to work best to speak to people was to always start first by asking how they were and trying to express compassion for their loss," Greenfield says. She would converse, she said, "if they felt like talking.""It was really the subject I was interviewing who taught me that, from the man I walked beside in the park who told me of his dramatic escape from the mosque, to the woman who wanted to show me photos of her husband who had died after running back to the mosque after initially getting out."Very often, and still now, a few tears came to my eyes. So far as I can tell, the people I spoke to didn't seem to mind."Sydney correspondent Tom Westbrook, who arrived in Christchurch the next day, says he was struck by the silence in the city. The man suspected to be the gunman had been apprehended and Christchurch was dealing with its grief."For the next five days, I barely heard a conversation above a murmur," Westbrook says. "It was a city in shock. At makeshift shrines to the victims, people gathered in silence, tears rolling down their faces."The loudest sounds were of buzzing cicadas, rustling oak trees and humming generators set up by television networks to power the satellite dishes they were using to transmit their broadcasts.""HORRIFIED SOUL-SEARCHING"Westbrook is based in Sydney, Australia, where he mainly reports on company news: profits, losses, stock prices up or down.He said he had many difficult conversations with the bereaved."One of hardest discussions was with Farid Ahmed, whose wife Husna was gunned down, while he survived. As he spoke for over two hours, with a television camera rolling, I was close to tears."As a journalist, though, he had to set the emotion aside to make sure he was reporting the story right, Westbrook said."We had to check a lot of things with him: where were you, exactly, in the mosque, which way did you get out, what is the name of Husna's school? It is not easy to check all these things with someone who is very emotional and maybe not thinking clearly themselves, and to raise them in a way that is delicate."Greenfield says as a New Zealander of European descent, covering the massacre by a suspected white supremacist also brought up "horrified soul-searching"."I had not quite felt so personally wrapped up in such harrowing questions in the midst of a story before," she says."The Friday a week after the attacks, came a moment of catharsis interwoven with sorrow."After the call to prayer, the country came to a standstill for two minutes. School children stopped their lessons and sat cross legged and eyes closed, tradesmen put down their tools, immigration staff stopped processing people at the border, most air traffic radios went silent, and around the country thousands stood outside mosques, leaving a long passage for those entering to pray.AdvertisementSupported byBy The Associated PressWELLINGTON, New Zealand — The Latest on the mosque attacks in Christchurch, New Zealand (all times local):7 p.m.The body of a 26-year-old Pakistani who was among 50 worshippers killed during attacks on mosques in New Zealand has arrived at an airport in the southern port city of Karachi.Syed Areeb Ahmed was among nine Pakistanis who were killed on March 15 when a white supremacist shot people inside two mosques in Christchurch, New Zealand.On Monday, his sobbing father Syed Ayaz Ahmed, family members and government officials received his body.Ahmed was an only son who had immigrated to New Zealand for work, according to his uncle Muhammad Muzaffar Khan.Last week, Pakistan observed a day of mourning for the victims and honored another Pakistani, Naeem Rashid, who died along with his son after trying to tackle the gunman.___3 p.m.New Zealand's prime minister has announced a top-level inquiry into the circumstances surrounding the massacre of 50 people in two Christchurch mosques.Prime Minister Jacinda Ardern says the country's highest form of investigation, a royal commission of inquiry, was appropriate for "matters of the gravest public importance."Her Cabinet had previously agreed on holding an inquiry, but had not decided what kind of investigation would be held.AdvertisementSupported byBy Liam Stack and Jacey FortinRead Thursday’s story on the shooting at a bank in Florida that police say left five dead.The call came in at 12:37 p.m. Wednesday. A 21-year old gunman, clad in a T-shirt that bore the image of four scythe-wielding grim reapers on horseback, wanted the police to know that he had just opened fire in a bank in the small city of Sebring, Fla., the police said.“I have shot five people,” he told a dispatcher, according to a police statement. There were only five people in the bank at the time, the police said, and they all died.When the Sebring Police Department and the Highlands County Sheriff’s Office responded to the SunTrust Bank branch on U.S. Route 27, they said, they found the shooter barricaded inside. What followed was a tense standoff with police negotiators that ended when an armored police vehicle rammed into the bank doors, shattering their glass, video footage shows.The police said in a statement that negotiators and members of the SWAT team “persuaded the suspect to surrender.” Video from the scene shows officers inching toward the broken glass with their firearms drawn. They soon emerged with the suspect in handcuffs.“We are sorry to learn that we have at least five victims, people who were senselessly murdered, as a result of his act in this bank,” Chief Karl Hoglund of the Sebring police said at a brief news conference late Wednesday afternoon in this city 80 miles south of Orlando.He identified the man in custody as Zephen Xaver, 21, a resident of Sebring. The police said they were still investigating the motive for what the police chief called “coldblooded murder.”Mr. Xaver was being held at Highlands County Jail and was charged with five counts of first-degree premeditated murder.At a court hearing on Thursday morning, Judge Anthony Ritenour ordered him to be held without bail. Mr. Xaver, who was wearing a black and white jumpsuit, stood before the judge and responded, “Yes, sir,” when asked whether he had no income or assets. Judge Ritenour granted a public defender to represent Mr. Xaver.On Wednesday, Chief Hoglund told reporters that investigators had not finished identifying the victims. “This is a very dynamic and ongoing investigation,” he added.Mr. Xaver had recently been training to work as a correctional officer at Avon Park Correctional Institution, a prison about 20 miles north of the bank where the shooting occurred, said Patrick Manderfield, a spokesman for the Florida Department of Corrections.He was hired as a trainee in November and resigned on Jan. 9, Mr. Manderfield said. He had no disciplinary record with the department.Gov. Ron DeSantis, who traveled to the area on Wednesday afternoon, posted a  message from him and his wife, Casey DeSantis, on Twitter.“This is a terrible day for Sebring, Highlands County and for the state of Florida,” Mr. DeSantis said. “Casey and I extend our most sincere condolences and sympathies to the families and loved ones of the victims. The people of Florida stand with the community of Sebring.”The governor said the gunman was “an individual that needs to face very swift and exacting justice.”Bill Rogers, the chairman and C.E.O. of SunTrust, said in a statement that the company was “working with officials and dedicating ourselves to fully addressing the needs of all the individuals and families involved.” He said the company was “deeply saddened” by the loss of life at the bank.Sebring, a sleepy city of about 10,000 whose meandering borders are dotted with lakes, boasts a historic downtown and an international raceway. On Wednesday night, it was swarming with wailing police cars, buzzing helicopters and media vehicles.“We have a whole lot more questions right now than answers,” said Don Elwell, a member of the Highlands County Board of County Commissioners. Both the shootings and the lack of information had left the community in shock, he said.“For us — I have some family in Las Vegas, where there was that big shooting, and they said, ‘We’re sorry to welcome you to our club,’” Mr. Elwell said on Wednesday, referring to a 2017 shooting that killed 59 people. “Obviously that was a different scale, but here in little Sebring it might as well be the same.”The episode on Wednesday is just the latest of several high-profile shootings in Florida that have roiled the state in recent months.Last February, a young gunman barged into his former high school in Parkland, Fla., opening fire on terrified students and teachers and leaving 17 dead. In August, a man with a handgun killed two people at a video-game tournament in Jacksonville, Fla., before fatally shooting himself. And last fall, a man walked into a yoga studio in Tallahassee, Fla., and shot six people — two fatally — before killing himself.Florida, which bears the official nickname the Sunshine State, is sometimes referred to as the Gunshine State because of its traditionally loose restrictions on firearms. But in March 2018, in the wake of the Parkland shooting, Rick Scott, who was then the governor, signed an array of gun limits into law that included raising the minimum age to purchase a firearm to 21 and extending the waiting period to three days.It was the most aggressive action on gun control taken in the state in decades, and the National Rifle Association almost immediately sued.Wendy Thompson, Matt Stevens and Julia Jacobs contributed reporting. Jack Begg contributed research.AdvertisementSupported byBy The Associated PressANKARA, Turkey — The Greek government voiced opposition Monday to the suggestion from Turkish President Recep Tayyip Erdogan that Istanbul's Hagia Sophia — a Byzantine-era cathedral that now serves as a museum — could be reconverted into a mosque.In a television interview Sunday ahead of Turkey's March 31 local elections, Erdogan indicated that it was possible to "change its name from museum to Hagia Sophia Mosque."There have been increasing calls for the government to convert the symbolic structure back into a mosque, especially in the wake of reports that the gunman who killed Muslim worshippers in New Zealand left a manifesto saying the Hagia Sophia should be "free of minarets."Erdogan's suggestion drew ire in Greece as the cathedral, originally built in the 6th century was the main seat of the Greek Orthodox church. It remained so until it was converted into a mosque after the Ottoman conquest of the city, then-known as Constantinople, in 1453. Turkey's secular founder turned the structure into a museum in 1935 that attracts millions of tourists each year."It is not only a great temple of Christendom — the largest for many centuries — it also belongs to humanity. It has been recognized by UNESCO as part of our global cultural heritage," Greek Foreign Minister George Katrougalos said."So any questioning of this status is not just an insult to the sentiments of Christians, it is an insult to the international community and international law."AdvertisementSupported byBy Liam StackThe authorities charged a man on Monday in connection with nearly a dozen shootings in and around a Southern California state park that left a father dead as he camped with his two young daughters and terrorized two affluent communities for almost two years.The suspect, Anthony Rauda, 42, was charged with murder in the June 2018 killing of Tristan Beaudette, 35, a scientist shot while he was inside a tent with his children at Malibu Creek State Park in the Santa Monica Mountains outside Los Angeles. His children were not hurt in the attack.Mr. Rauda, a felon who was on parole at the time of the attacks, was also charged with 10 counts of attempted murder in the shootings beginning in November 2016 in and around the park, which abuts the upscale communities of Calabasas and Malibu.He was arrested in October after sheriff’s deputies saw him on a ridge dressed in black with a rifle sticking out of his backpack, according to The Associated Press. They were searching the area for an armed burglar who stole food from nearby homes and businesses.Mr. Rauda was sentenced in November to 160 days in county jail for violating the terms of his post-release community supervision, said Shiara Davila-Morales, a spokeswoman for the prosecutor’s office. In December, he was sentenced to 180 days in jail for gun and ammunition violations, she said.“There is a huge sense of relief that the suspect has been apprehended and charged with these crimes,” said Alicia Weintraub, the mayor pro tem of Calabasas, which had offered a $5,000 reward for information related to the killing. “It was a very scary time. The fact something like that could happen here was very traumatic and the manner in which it happened was very upsetting.”Fred Gaines, a member of the Calabasas City Council, said the community had “a very, very low crime rate and an extremely low violent crime rate.”“To have an incident where someone is shot and killed is extremely rare,” Mr. Gaines said. “To have an unknown shooter in the community was of significant concern and for some people it was very frightening.”The area has been repeatedly shaken in recent months, first by the killing of Mr. Beaudette and then by the Woolsey Fire, which burned parts of both towns and tore through the verdant canyon park in November. That same month, 12 people were killed in a mass shooting at a country music bar in the nearby town of Thousand Oaks.“Following the shooting in Thousand Oaks and the fire that devastated our area, I am really grateful for the hard work of law enforcement who put this to rest,” said Skylar Peak, a member of the Malibu City Council.In a statement, prosecutors said the attacks began in November 2016 when the gunman shot James Rogers, who was sleeping in a hammock in the park. The gunman fired into the sleeping area of a parked vehicle less than a week later, they said, and then shot at vehicles in or near the park three times in 2017. No one was injured in those attacks.Prosecutors said the attacker again shot at a car last June as it drove down Las Virgenes Road, a major thoroughfare that forms part of the park’s eastern border, but no one was injured. The gunman encountered Mr. Beaudette in a tent with his children four days later, on June 22.A camper elsewhere in the park reported hearing gunfire at around 4:45 a.m. on the day Mr. Beaudette was killed, the authorities said in June. When deputies arrived at the camp site, which Mr. Gaines said is plainly visible from Las Virgenes Road, they found Mr. Beaudette with at least one gunshot wound in his upper torso. He was pronounced dead at the scene, the police said.“The grief and trauma this loss has caused our close-knit family is indescribable,” Mr. Beaudette’s family said in a statement released at the time of his death. “A scientist who loved cooking and microbrews, Tristan was happiest out in nature and spent every chance he could hiking, biking, snowboarding and camping with his family.”The Los Angeles County District Attorney’s Office said Mr. Rauda was also charged in five burglaries that occurred in the Calabasas area last year.A spokeswoman for the prosecutor declined to say how law enforcement had connected Mr. Rauda to all of the shootings and burglaries, and a spokesman for the Los Angeles County Sheriff’s Department did not respond to a request for comment on Monday.AdvertisementSupported byBy Saw Nang and Austin RamzyFour men were convicted Friday in the killing of a prominent adviser to Myanmar’s leadership who was shot in the head while holding his infant grandson at Yangon International Airport in 2017.The killing of the adviser, U Ko Ni, is widely believed to have been a political assassination. But the supposed mastermind has not been found, and what role, if any, the country’s powerful military had in the killing was not revealed in the lengthy trial of the four suspects.Mr. Ko Ni, 65, was a high-profile lawyer; a member of the governing party, the National League for Democracy; and a Muslim in a predominately Buddhist country riven by religious and ethnic violence. He was also a legal adviser to Myanmar’s leader, Daw Aung San Suu Kyi.His killing has hindered the governing party’s efforts to change the political system, in which the military that once ran the country as a dictatorship still maintains vast authority.Colleagues said that before his death, Mr. Ko Ni had advocated a new constitution that would cut the special powers the military reserved for itself in the current charter.Mr. Ko Ni was also an author of a strategy that allowed Ms. Aung San Suu Kyi to bypass a restriction in the Constitution that prevented her from becoming president. Her allies created a new position, state counselor, through which she leads the country.Witnesses said that before he opened fire, the gunman shouted, “You can’t act like that.”On Friday, the accused gunman, U Kyi Lin, was sentenced to death for the killing of Mr. Ko Ni. He was also sentenced to 20 years in prison for the killing of a taxi driver who tried to stop him after the initial shooting. U Aung Win Zaw, who was accused of directing the killer, was convicted of murder and also given a death sentence.The odds of the men being executed are quite low, however. Death sentences are typically commuted in Myanmar.Also sentenced on Friday were U Zeyar Phyo, who got five years in prison for conspiring in the killing, and U Aung Win Tun, who was convicted of harboring one of the conspirators as a fugitive and given three years in prison.Both Mr. Zeyar Phyo and Mr. Aung Win Zaw are former military officers.Prosecutors have said that the attack was masterminded by U Aung Win Khaing, a former lieutenant colonel in Myanmar’s Army. He remains at large.“Discussions of the motive in the killing are speculative,” U Nay La, a prosecutor, said in an interview with The Irrawaddy, an online news outlet. “We have not been able to establish a motive during the trial. Presumably we would be able to do so if Aung Win Khaing was arrested.”Mr. Nay La added that he did not believe Mr. Ko Ni was killed solely because he had advocated a new constitution, but that that could have been a factor in his death.Mr. Ko Ni was the son of a Muslim father from India and an ethnic Burmese and Buddhist mother. He was called one of the governing party’s brightest legal minds, which he combined with a political savvy that helped the party navigate the country’s sectarian divides.He endorsed a decision by the National League for Democracy to not run any Muslim candidates in the 2015 election, when it won a landslide victory that brought Ms. Aung San Suu Kyi to power. The Parliament seated in 2016 was the first to have no Muslim members since the country’s independence in 1948.Tens of thousands of mourners gathered for Mr. Ko Ni’s funeral in Yangon, but Ms. Aung San Suu Kyi did not attend.AdvertisementSupported byFRONT PAGEBecause of an editing error, an article on Monday about the police response to the Christchurch, New Zealand, mosque attacks referred incorrectly to which side of the gunman’s vehicle he was pulled from by two arresting officers. It was the passenger side, not the driver’s side.INTERNATIONALAn article on Friday about activist movements that have formed in the wake of the killing of the Brazilian activist Marielle Franco misidentified the office to which three women were elected last year. Renata da Silva Souza, Dani Monteiro and Mфnica Francisco were elected to the Rio de Janeiro State Assembly, not the City Council.•An article on Tuesday about a dead whale beached in the Philippines misstated, in one reference, the amount of plastic found inside the whale’s body. As noted in the headline and elsewhere in the article, it was 88 pounds, not 40 pounds.NATIONALA picture caption with an article on Tuesday about the former White House counsel Gregory B. Craig misstated the dates of Mr. Craig’s tenure as White House counsel. As the article correctly noted, he served from 2009 to 2010, not after 2012.BUSINESSAn article on Tuesday about the legacy of Levi Strauss & Company misstated, based on information included in Levi’s’ public offering filing, when Beyoncй performed at Coachella. It was April 2018, not 2017.•An article on Tuesday about the political contributions of executives misidentified the positions of three researchers. Although the study was conducted through a Harvard Law School program, Moshe Hazan is a professor at Tel Aviv University, David Weiss is a lecturer at Tel Aviv University, and Roberto Tallarita is an associate director of the Harvard program. They are not Harvard professors.ARTSAn article on Tuesday about the New York International Antiquarian Book Fair misstated the words above the portrait of Qiu Jin in the pamphlet published soon after Qiu’s death. Though she is referred to as “woman warrior” elsewhere in the pamphlet, those are not the words that appear on the page with her portrait.OBITUARIESAn obituary on Tuesday about the economist Alan B. Krueger misstated the year he graduated from Cornell. It was 1983, not 1985.Errors are corrected during the press run whenever possible, so some errors noted here may not have appeared in all editions.To contact the newsroom regarding correction requests, complaints or other comments about our coverage, please email nytnews@nytimes.com or call 1-844-NYT-NEWS (1-844-698-6397).AdvertisementSupported byBy The Associated PressPARKLAND, Fla. — Days after the suicides of two student survivors of the Parkland school shooting, parents and teachers packed a town hall Wednesday night, anxiously wondering out loud how to get students to seek therapy as many have been unwilling — despite a barrage of offerings since the 2018 massacre.On Wednesday night, anxious parents in the standing-room only crowd spoke of fears and frustration in trying to get their children help after the Valentine's Day massacre that February, which killed 17 people.Lissette Rozenblat recalled how her 16-year-old daughter was in the freshman building the gunman attacked."My daughter doesn't want to go to therapy anymore either. I have to make the appointments ... and she's like, 'oh can we reschedule'," Rozenblat said. "They don't want to talk about it, but we know better. Sooner or later it's going to catch up to them."Other parents also said they are left feeling helpless because of the difficulty of forcing kids to get help they don't want."My son doesn't want to discuss it at all either," said Joe Safonte, whose 17-year-old narrowly missed an encounter with the gunman.His son stopped therapy after six months, saying it wasn't helping anymore, according to Safonte. But just last week, the father noted, his son was terrified when an alarm went off in their hotel room."Maybe it's time to go back," he said.The first Parkland suicide took place March 16. Cara Aiello told WFOR-TV her 18-year-old daughter Sydney had suffered from survivor's guilt — her friend, Meadow Pollack, died in the attack. Coral Springs police Officer Tyler Reik confirmed Monday that a Stoneman Douglas sophomore apparently killed himself Saturday, but autopsy results were pending. The boy's name was not immediately released.A local nonprofit had planned to open a teen wellness center near Marjory Stoneman Douglas High School on April 30, offering free activities such as karaoke night, yoga, kickboxing and acupuncture for students who weren't interested in talking to a therapist. A wellness center, Eagle's Haven, even opened weeks ahead of schedule Monday to address emergency needs of students and their families."One teen just wanted to cry yesterday and didn't want to talk. Another teen wanted to tell his story about the actual shooting," said Julie Gordon, a licensed therapist and program director of Jewish Adoption and Family Care Options, the nonprofit behind Eagle's Haven.Some students say they feel re-traumatized talking about the Parkland shooting. Some only want to talk to friends who were there and understand what it's like. Still others perceive a stigma around seeking help.Shortly after the shooting, leaders in the affluent community quickly came together to offer an array of services, many free, including in-home counseling, therapy dogs and trauma techniques."Even though so many services have been available, it's been difficult to understand through the clutter of messaging .... there's so many options that it's hard to understand where to go," said Cindy Arenberg Seltzer, president of the Children's Services Council of Broward County.She moderated the standing room only town hall Wednesday, describing how calls to a 211 helpline had been flat after the shooting.The number of calls went up, however, after the recent suicides.Said Seltzer, "finally the message is breaking through."The recent apparent suicides of the two Parkland students and Jeremy Richman, the father of Sandy Hook victim who killed himself Monday, made national headlines, prompting fears of suicide or contagion clusters. Richman's daughter Avielle was one of 20 first-graders and six staff members fatally shot at the Connecticut elementary school six years ago.The Florida House held a moment of silence for all three Wednesday, their names read out as part of a tribute. Gov. Ron DeSantis scheduled a last minute listening session on mental health Thursday.Parkland leaders are working closely with those in Columbine, Colorado, and Newtown, Connecticut, and noted a spike in Sandy Hook first responders and survivors seeking therapy and other services — some for the first time — at the five-year anniversary of the attack. Experts are working to debunk the myth that time alone will heal traumas."The trauma will still be there, the anxiety, the flashbacks," Franco said. "People kind of measure those anniversaries and say, 'OK, a year from now I'll feel better,' so the first anniversary comes and you're not feeling better, so you're feeling like it won't go away. ... There are therapeutic approaches that can really help you heal that. You don't have to live with that."AdvertisementSupported byBy Reuters(Reuters) - Police are investigating a fire at a Southern California mosque on Sunday as a possible arson and hate crime after fresh graffiti on the driveway mentioned the mass shootings at two mosques in New Zealand, local media reported.Police and firefighters were called to the Islamic Center of Escondido, north of San Diego, about 3:15 a.m. (1015 GMT) on Sunday about a fire that blackened an outside wall, the San Diego Tribune and other media reported.Congregants at the center smelled smoke, spotted the fire and put it out before it caused serious damage, before firefighters arrived, media reported.No one was injured.But on the mosque's driveway, police found fresh graffiti that referenced the March 15 shootings at two mosques in Christchurch, New Zealand, that left 50 people dead and others seriously injured from a gunman who published a hate-filled manifesto on social media, police told the press.The exact words in the graffiti message were not released by police.Morning prayers at the mosque were canceled as law enforcement investigated the scene.Escondido Police Lieutenant Chris Lick told the Tribune and other media that it appeared that a chemical accelerant was used to set the fire.No suspects were reported.Along with local police and fire officials, agents with the FBI and Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives are investigating the case as both an arson and a hate crime, media reported.Yusef Miller, a spokesman for the Islamic community in Escondido told the Tribune that people at mosques across the region need to remain vigilant."Everyone is on edge," he told the paper. ""When they connected it to New Zealand, it gave us more of a mortal fear that something outlandish might happen."AdvertisementSupported byBy Liam StackFacebook said on Wednesday that it would ban white nationalist content from its platforms, a significant policy change that bows to longstanding demands from civil rights groups who said the tech giant was failing to confront the powerful reach of white extremism on social media.The threat posed by white nationalism on Facebook was violently underlined this month when a racist gunman killed 50 people at two mosques in New Zealand, using the platform to post live video of the attack. Facebook removed the video and the gunman’s account on Facebook and Instagram, but the footage was widely shared on YouTube, Twitter and Reddit.The company had previously banned white supremacist content from its platforms but maintained a murky distinction between white supremacy, white nationalism and white separatism. On Wednesday, it said that its views had been changed by civil society groups and experts in race relations and that it now believed “white nationalism and separatism cannot be meaningfully separated from white supremacy and organized hate groups.”Kristen Clarke, the president of the Lawyers’ Committee for Civil Rights Under Law, which helped Facebook shape its new attitude toward white nationalism, said the earlier policy “left a gaping hole in terms of what it provided for white supremacists to fully pursue their platform.”“Online hate must be confronted if we are going to make meaningful progress in the fight against hate, so this is a really significant victory,” Ms. Clarke said.[The Charlottesville attacker pleaded guilty to federal hate crime charges.]As part of its policy change, Facebook said it would divert users who searched for white supremacist content to Life After Hate, a nonprofit that helps people leave hate groups, and would improve its ability to use artificial intelligence and machine learning to combat white nationalism.“It’s clear that these concepts are deeply linked to organized hate groups and have no place on our services,” Facebook said in a statement posted online on Wednesday. It later added, “Going forward, while people will still be able to demonstrate pride in their ethnic heritage, we will not tolerate praise or support for white nationalism and separatism.”The company said its decision, which takes effect next week, was based on a rethinking of its earlier policy on white nationalism, which it saw as a concept akin to ethnic pride and something different from and less dangerous than white supremacy.“Our policies have long prohibited hateful treatment of people based on characteristics such as race, ethnicity or religion — and that has always included white supremacy,” the company said in a statement. “We didn’t originally apply the same rationale to expressions of white nationalism and separatism because we were thinking about broader concepts of nationalism and separatism — things like American pride and Basque separatism, which are an important part of people’s identity.”Facebook’s decision was praised by civil rights groups and experts in extremism, many of whom had strongly disapproved of the company’s previous understanding of white nationalism.Madihha Ahussain, a lawyer for Muslim Advocates, a civil-rights group, said the policy change was “a welcome development” in the wake of the New Zealand mosque shootings. But she said the company still had to explain how it will enforce the policy, including how it will determine what constitutes white nationalist content.“We need to know how Facebook will define white nationalist and white separatist content,” she said in an email. “For example, will it include expressions of anti-Muslim, anti-Black, anti-Jewish, anti-immigrant and anti-LGBTQ sentiment — all underlying foundations of white nationalism? Further, if the policy lacks robust, informed and assertive enforcement, it will continue to leave vulnerable communities at the mercy of hate groups.”Mark Pitcavage, who tracks domestic extremism for the Anti-Defamation League, said the shift from Facebook was “a good thing if they were using such a narrow definition before.”Mr. Pitcavage said the term white nationalism “had always been used as a euphemism for white supremacy, and today it is still used as a euphemism for white supremacy.” He called the two terms “identically extreme.”He said white supremacists began using the term “white nationalist” after the civil rights movement of the 1960s, when the term “white supremacy” began to receive sustained scorn from mainstream society, including among white people.“The less hard-core white supremacists stopped using any term for themselves, but the more hard-core white supremacists started using ‘white nationalism’ as a euphemism for ‘white supremacy,’” he said.And he said comparisons between white nationalism and American patriotism or ethnic pride were misplaced.“Whiteness is not an ethnicity, it is a skin color,” Mr. Pitcavage said. “And America is a multicultural society. White nationalism is simply a form of white supremacy. It is an ideology centered on hate.”AdvertisementSupported byBy Damien CaveCHRISTCHURCH, New Zealand — The suspected gunman in last week’s attack on two mosques in Christchurch, New Zealand, was charged with murder for the death of one victim — but the police announced on Thursday that that supposed victim was in fact alive.A police spokesman said that the charge sheet would be corrected, with a new name, and legal experts said the mistake would not impede prosecution in the mass shooting that left 50 people dead.“In our system there is a provision to amend the charge at any time, and the issue is whether the amendment is in the interest of justice,” said Jonathan Eaton, a lawyer and former prosecutor specializing in criminal law. “I will imagine there will be a fairly hasty effort to amend that charging document.”The names of the person incorrectly included on the charge sheet — and the one being added — are both subject to a suppression order by Judge Paul Kellar.Judge Kellar ruled on Saturday during the first court appearance of the suspect, Brenton H. Tarrant, that the person he was said to have killed should temporarily not be publicly identified to avoid causing harm to the person’s family.The police said they had apologized to the person they named in error, but they did not respond to requests for further details.The mistake was uncovered when reporters noticed a discrepancy between the police’s official list of names, which was released on Thursday, and the names identified by victims and other sources. Radio New Zealand, which first reported the police’s mistake, counted 51 names when the police insisted that there were 50.Mr. Eaton said it was embarrassing but perhaps understandable for a police force overwhelmed by a crime like nothing it had ever seen.“When you’re dealing with something for which there is no established response, which you’ve never experienced before, then things are going to be thrown up that you’re going to have to learn from,” he said. “There are mistakes made and learnings for sure.”AdvertisementSupported byBy The Associated PressCANBERRA, Australia — Police in Australia set off a panic when they locked down a Melbourne train station on Thursday after a street entertainer's instrument was mistaken for a rifle.Commuters described panic at Melbourne's Flagstaff Station when police in body armor carrying assault rifles stopped a train during morning rush hour. Terrified passengers were in tears and phoned relatives to tell them they were loved.Police said a passenger reported busker Will Austin behaving suspiciously on a train as he performed breathing exercises in preparation for playing his didgeridoo, a polished-wood indigenous wind instrument which he carried in a bag mistakenly described to police as a rifle case.Austin said he was stopped by police after he got off the train at the station. He was concentrating on his smart phone at the time."Everyone was running and I probably looked pretty suspicious, I suppose, just waltzing around and slowly walking out of Flagstaff and I think that's where police stopped me," Austin told reporters."A few police officers approached me — they kind of chased after me to catch up because I was on my way, but one requested to look in my bag," he added.Victoria state Police Chief Commissioner Graham Ashton said no firearm was found and the train was allowed to proceed.Train passenger Sarsha Vadocz said she was unconcerned at first when the train stopped for five minutes at the station. Then someone yelled there was a gunman on the train and passengers dived to the floor.AdvertisementSupported byBy Reuters(Reuters) - Pittsburgh's city council on Tuesday approved restrictions on the use of some "assault weapons" and ammunition, passing bills introduced following a 2018 synagogue shooting, in a move gun-rights activists vowed to challenge.The all-Democratic council voted 6-3 to restrict the use of certain semi-automatic weapons, such as the Colt AR-15 rifle, which a lone gunman used in the October shooting at the Tree of Life Synagogue which killed 11 people.City residents who already own such guns would be allowed to keep them. The legislation bans certain ammunition and gun accessories. It also lets authorities temporarily take firearms from people judged a risk to themselves or others. Pittsburgh Mayor Bill Peduto, a Democrat, said he would sign the bill into law.Opponents of the legislation said it violated a state law prohibiting municipalities from regulating firearms or ammunition and vowed to sue the city and file criminal complaints against the council and mayor."If you sign between now and COB Thursday, we'll be at Municipal Court to file private criminal complaints," tweeted Val Finnell, a leading critic of the legislation.Councilman Corey O'Connor said Pennsylvania courts were now more open to allowing municipalities have a say on protecting residents. In 1993, the state courts overturned a previous assault weapons ban by the city council. "It's going to be a difficult battle, but we're willing to fight it," O'Connor told reporters after the vote. Seven U.S. states prohibit assault weapons, but Pennsylvania is not among them. Certain U.S. cities and counties in U.S. states with no assault weapon bans have imposed their own restrictions on the firearms.Pittsburgh council members who voted against the legislation said it would be too costly to litigate given Pennsylvania law.Gun control groups like CeaseFirePA praised the legislation as "common-sense gun laws."AdvertisementSupported byBy Liam StackA New York man who discussed an American re-enactment of the New Zealand mosque massacre with white supremacist friends on Facebook was charged Thursday with lying to F.B.I. agents, law enforcement officials said.According to the criminal complaint, Thomas Alonzo Bolin, 22, was charged on Wednesday with lying to federal agents in an interview last week about whether he owned firearms, the Office of the United States Attorney for the Western District of New York said. He was already in custody on state charges filed Saturday.The office said the F.B.I. had been investigating Mr. Bolin, who lives in the Rochester suburb of Greece, N.Y., for possible violations of federal civil rights and firearms laws.It was not clear on Thursday whether Mr. Bolin had made any specific plans for violence. But in Facebook messages he had praised the March 15 mass killing of 50 people at two mosques in Christchurch, New Zealand, according to the criminal complaint. He also discussed his desire to commit acts of violence in the messages, which were intercepted by law enforcement officials.The F.B.I. said Mr. Bolin used the alias Peter Vincent to share video of the Christchurch attack, which was livestreamed by the shooter on Facebook and spread to Twitter, Reddit and YouTube. Mr. Bolin also used that alias to be active in white supremacist Facebook groups and discuss potential violence with his cousin, Austin Witkowski, the agency said.A law enforcement official said Mr. Witkowski, who used the Facebook alias Ragnar Odinson, had not been arrested. The official said his whereabouts was unknown.The F.B.I. used Facebook messages to map out weeks of racist conversations between the two men, who appeared to share a specific hostile fixation on Muslims, according to the complaint.On the day of the Christchurch attack, the two men also talked to each other about the manifesto published by the gunman and shared their hope that a similar massacre would happen in the United States.The F.B.I. said Mr. Bolin talked to his cousin about the New Zealand gunman, telling him, “Brugh dude killed 40 muslims.” Mr. Witkowski responded with a heart emoji and the word, “Lovely.”Both men talked to other Facebook users about the Christchurch attack, the F.B.I. said, and their desire to emulate it in the United States, although those other users are not identified in the criminal complaint.Talking about the shooting with one of those unidentified Facebook users, Mr. Brolin said “there is a war brewing” and “realistically this was a small piece of a bigger picture now we wait for the retaliation.”The criminal complaint alleges that Mr. Witkowski made more specific threats. Speaking to an unidentified Facebook user, Mr. Witkowski said he wanted to see the Christchurch attacks copied in the United States and then said he was willing to “do something as of next week” in Baltimore.The complaint said Mr. Witkowski told the other Facebook user to buy firearms, ammunition and food, and said that he would travel to meet him the next week. The complaint does not say if the meeting ever happened.The day after the shooting, Mr. Bolin and Mr. Witkowski expressed frustration to each other that they had not been able to carry out an attack. According to the complaint, Mr. Bolin said he had broken his arm in a car accident.Using an expletive, Mr. Witkowski responded that the broken arm would complicate an unspecified plan they had made. Mr. Bolin then reassured him, saying it only “takes one arm to fire a Glock.”Mr. Witkowski wrote back saying he would carry out their plan himself. “I’m not waiting months and months or a week,” he said. “It was supposed to be done by Halloween.”Later that day, Mr. Witkowski wrote to his cousin: “Words aren’t going to help. Violence is the key.” The F.B.I. said Mr. Bolin then cautioned his cousin not to say anything more on Facebook.“Yoooo chill,” he wrote. “Not on the fed book.” Mr. Witkowski replied that he did not care.Using the Peter Vincent alias, Mr. Bolin managed a Facebook group called Odin’s Warriors, which did not appear to be active on Thursday. The F.B.I. said Mr. Bolin and his cousin were members of a neo-pagan religious group called “Folk Odinism” that worships the gods of Norse mythology and limits its membership to white heterosexuals.The criminal complaint said investigators linked Mr. Bolin to the Peter Vincent account by combing through Facebook messages, where Mr. Vincent once told someone that his “real name is Thomas Bolin, Peter Vincent is a character from a horror movie.” (That was most likely the 1985 vampire movie “Fright Night,” or the 2011 remake.)Facebook provided the F.B.I. with Mr. Bolin’s messages on March 21 as part of a “voluntary emergency disclosure of subscriber and content information,” the agency said. A representative for the company said it shares user information with law enforcement without going through a formal legal process only when it believes there to be an imminent risk of serious injury or death.“White supremacy, hate groups, and hate speech are not allowed on Facebook, and we also recently announced a ban on praise or support of white nationalism,” the company said in a statement. “We remove any content that violates our policies and work with law enforcement when we think there is a genuine risk of real-world harm.”AdvertisementSupported byBy Isabel KershnerJERUSALEM — A Palestinian carried out a stabbing and shooting attack in the occupied West Bank on Sunday, killing an Israeli soldier and a civilian, and ratcheting up tensions ahead of Israeli elections.The attack came amid a heated campaign for the April 9 ballot in which a former general leading a new, centrist party is challenging the longtime incumbent, Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu, over who can provide Israelis with better security.The situation was already volatile.On Friday, a fragile calm was restored after two rockets from Gaza  were fired at Tel Aviv on the night before, without causing harm.Israel retaliated swiftly, with strikes at what it said were military sites and compounds belonging to Hamas, the Islamic militant group that controls Gaza. The Israeli military said one of the sites it struck in Gaza was the headquarters for coordinating Hamas activities in the West Bank, where the group has been seeking to foment violence.The soldier killed on Sunday was identified as Staff Sgt. Gal Keidan, 19. On Monday, a second victim, Rabbi Achiad Ettinger, 47, a father of 12 from the settlement of Eli and head of a seminary in Tel Aviv, died of his wounds. Another soldier was seriously wounded. As of Monday morning, the assailant was still at large.Hamas praised the attack as a “courageous and daring operation,” without claiming responsibility for it. In a statement, it described the West Bank as a “strategic” place where it was possible to surprise Israel with violent attacks.The assault began when a Palestinian man stabbed Sergeant Keidan near the settlement of Ariel in the central West Bank, then stole the soldier’s weapon and took off in a car, according to the Israeli military. He then fired at people at a bus stop before fleeing the scene.In remarks at the weekly cabinet meeting in Jerusalem, Mr. Netanyahu said the security forces were pursuing those responsible for the attack at two points in the central West Bank. “I am certain that they will apprehend them,” he said, “and we will deal with them to the fullest extent of the law, as we have done in all of the recent incidents.”In December, two Israeli soldiers were killed by a Palestinian gunman near Ramallah, days after another attacker wounded a pregnant woman; her baby died. Another Palestinian gunman killed two Israelis at a West Bank factory.Even before the victim of Sunday’s attack had been named, the incident became grist for the increasingly rough election campaign. In search of support and facing corruption charges, a weakened Mr. Netanyahu is pulling out all the stops, including making a deal last month with  a racist anti-Arab party.On Sunday, Israel’s High Court of Justice disqualified one of the candidates from that party, Michael Ben Ari, from running in the election. The judges acted after being presented with video evidence of Mr. Ben Ari’s incitement against Palestinians, including those who are citizens of Israel.Miri Regev, the minister of culture and sport from Mr. Netanyahu’s Likud party, said the attack Sunday was the direct result of incitement by Palestinians; criticized an Arab lawmaker in Israel’s Parliament for refusing to condemn terrorist attacks; and accused the new party, led by Benny Gantz, a former military chief, of wanting to form a parliamentary majority with the Arab lawmaker.“This is the weak left, and this is the left that will bring us a continuation of terror attacks like these,” Ms. Regev said.Mr. Gantz’s Blue and White Party dismissed the criticism. “Never in the history of the state has it happened that a minister in Israel has exploited the deaths of those killed in terror attacks for political propaganda even before the funerals of the dead,” it said on twitter. “For the honor of the victims we will not respond at this time.”Hamas has found itself under increasing pressure because of a crippling economic crisis in Gaza. The group has harshly suppressed street demonstrations in recent days, beating and arresting civilians who have burned tires and blocked roads in protest against the daily hardships of life in the Palestinian coastal territory.The United Nations special envoy for the Middle East peace process, Nickolay Mladenov, denounced Hamas’s actions in a statement on Sunday. He said he was “particularly alarmed by the brutal beating” of journalists and local human rights workers in Gaza as well as the raiding of homes.“The long-suffering people of Gaza,” Mr. Mladenov said, have the right to protest “without fear of reprisal.”There is more potential for violence.Hamas is preparing for what it hopes will be a million-strong demonstration on March 30, the  anniversary of the start of often-violent protests along the fence dividing Gaza from Israel, in which scores of Palestinians have been killed by Israeli fire. The domestic pressure might well make Hamas all the more eager to redirect the public’s anger toward Israel, analysts say.In addition, an Israeli court on Sunday placed a temporary closure order on a disputed site known as Bab al-Rahma, which was being used by Muslims for prayer. It sits within the sacred compound revered by Muslims as Haram al-Sharif and by Jews as the Temple Mount in the Old City of Jerusalem, a frequent flash point for violence.Iyad Abuheweila contributed reporting from Gaza.AdvertisementSupported byJazmine, a 7-year-old girl from Texas, was fatally shot while in a car with her mother and sisters. The police believe the attack was a case of “mistaken identity.”By Julia JacobsJazmine Barnes, a 7-year-old girl whose fatal shooting has shaken the Houston area, was remembered at her funeral on Tuesday as a child who cared for those around her and who dreamed of one day being a teacher.A second grader at a Houston-area school, Jazmine was in the car with her mother and three sisters on an early morning coffee run on Dec. 30, when a car pulled up beside them and someone opened fire. A bullet struck Jazmine in the head, and she died at the scene, according to the police.“Jazmine is an innocent child,” Mayor Sylvester Turner of Houston said, speaking to mourners at the Community of Faith Church in Houston. “She was blameless.”“Because of her life I just want to believe that all of us will be better,” he said, “that all of us will work harder, that all of us will strive to make this world a safer place for our children.”The young black girl’s killing prompted fears of a hate crime after the family and authorities described the gunman as a gaunt white man in his 30s or 40s. That narrative was upended on Sunday when the police charged a 20-year-old African-American man named Eric Black Jr., who the authorities say admitted to taking part in the shooting, with capital murder. Sheriff Ed Gonzalez of Harris County, Tex., said that it was most likely a case of “mistaken identity,” and that Jazmine’s family’s car might not have been the intended target.Shortly after the funeral ended on Tuesday, the sheriff’s office announced that a second man, Larry D. Woodruffe, had been charged with capital murder in Jazmine’s death. [Read more here about how trauma can affect witnesses’ memories.]Jazmine’s father, Chris Cevilla, said at the funeral that his daughter was a positive force who improved the lives of those around her. She lay in a white coffin that said “Princess Jazmine.”“God blessed me and my family with an angel,” Mr. Cevilla said. “Words can’t even express the pain that I feel.”The ceremony included little discussion of the shooting itself, focusing instead on memorializing Jazmine and grieving with her family. But Representative Sheila Jackson Lee, a Democrat whose district includes part of Houston, gestured to the criminal proceedings taking place.“Let those who perpetrated this heinous death know that the community believes in justice,” she said.The case quickly drew national attention. DeAndre Hopkins, a wide receiver for the Houston Texans, pledged to donate his paycheck from a playoff game, amounting to about $29,000, to help pay for Jazmine’s funeral. The basketball star Shaquille O’Neal also promised to help the family pay for the funeral, according to CNN.AdvertisementSupported byFRONT PAGEAn article on Saturday about the massacre at two mosques in New Zealand transposed the first and second guns used by the accused gunman in the Al Noor mosque shooting. The first was a semiautomatic shotgun, not a rifle. The second was a semiautomatic rifle, not a shotgun.INTERNATIONALAn article on Wednesday about the indictment of eight Cambodian opposition leaders misidentified a vice president of the Cambodia National Rescue Party. He is Eng Chhai Eang, not Eng Chhai.•An article on Wednesday about the victims of the mass shooting in New Zealand, relying on information from the police, erroneously included an individual among the victims who were killed in the attack. That profile has been removed from the digital version of the article.NATIONALAn article on Wednesday about a plan for seven Western states to reduce water use amid a 19-year drought stated incorrectly the decade that Lake Mead began to fill. The lake began to fill in the 1930s, not the 1960s.NEW YORKAn article on Thursday about the philanthropist Michael Steinhardt misspelled the given name of Sheila Katz’s lawyer. She is Debra Katz, not Deborah.SPORTSAn article on Wednesday about soil shipped overseas for Major League Baseball games described incorrectly the significance of games between the Cubs and the Mets in Japan in 2000. They were the first regular-season games played outside North America, not the first played outside the United States and Canada.Errors are corrected during the press run whenever possible, so some errors noted here may not have appeared in all editions.To contact the newsroom regarding correction requests, complaints or other comments about our coverage, please email nytnews@nytimes.com or call 1-844-NYT-NEWS (1-844-698-6397).AdvertisementSupported byBy The New York Times• New Zealand grappled with grief and horror on Sunday, two days after a gunman opened fire at two mosques in the city of Christchurch, killing at least 50 people. The terrorist attack appeared to have been carried out by a white nationalist who posted a racist manifesto online and streamed live video of the killings on Facebook.• Prime Minister Jacinda Ardern said on Sunday that the suspect, an Australian, would be tried in New Zealand, and that her government would discuss gun regulation at a meeting on Monday. “There will be changes to our gun laws,” she said.• Minutes before the shooting began on Friday, Ms. Ardern was emailed a copy of the manifesto purported to be from the gunman, her office said. Many news outlets and lawmakers also received the email.• The family of the suspect, identified in court papers as Brenton Harrison Tarrant, 28, has apologized for the attack. In an interview published online on Sunday by Australia’s 9News, his grandmother said the family was “shattered” and denounced his actions as “unrepairable.”Prime Minister Jacinda Ardern said Sunday that the suspect charged in the Christchurch shootings, an Australian citizen, would be tried in New Zealand.A 28-year-old man from Australia has been charged with murder and appeared Saturday morning in a Christchurch courtroom. Court papers identified him as Brenton Harrison Tarrant.Ms. Ardern said he would face more charges, but she did not say whether terrorism charges were being considered. She said she was seeking advice on whether Mr. Tarrant might be extradited to Australia, but that his trial would take place in New Zealand.“He will certainly face the justice system of New Zealand for the terror attack he has committed here,” she said.There was no other shooter, Ms. Ardern said. She said one person had been taken into custody as a result of evidence collected during the investigation but that there was no evidence he was linked to the attack.Ms. Ardern said that her government would discuss the New Zealand’s gun laws at a meeting on Monday.“There will be changes to our gun laws,” she said at an afternoon news conference.She also said she would look into reports that there had been a surge in gun sales in New Zealand since the attack on Friday.The shooting has vaulted New Zealand into what could be a divisive political battle over gun control in the country, where many people own weapons, with few restrictions. The authorities say the suspect in the assault used five guns he had acquired legally, including two semiautomatic assault weapons.Many Americans can buy a gun in less than an hour. In New Zealand, the process can take weeks or months.Within hours of the Friday killings, the prime minister promised changes to gun laws and said regulations of semiautomatic weapons were “one of the issues.” New Zealand’s attorney general, David Parker, appeared to go beyond that statement at a vigil for the victims on Saturday, indicating that semiautomatic weapons would be banned, but he later backtracked.Mr. Parker told Radio New Zealand that had been trying to reflect Ms. Ardern’s comments that “we need to ban some semiautomatics, perhaps all of them.”“Those decisions have yet to be taken, but the prime minister has signaled that we are going to look at that issue,” Mr. Parker told the broadcaster.Licensed New Zealand gun owners pushed back. The Kiwi Gun Blog, a gun-rights online publication, said that one of the assailant’s goals was “to cause the gun rights of responsible New Zealanders to be attacked.” It said “our prime minister is now capitulating with him.”There is no dispute that acquiring a military-style semiautomatic weapon is relatively easy in New Zealand, where guns are plentiful. According to a 2017 small arms survey, there are more than 1.2 million firearms among the population of 4.6 million.Under New Zealand law, anyone 16 or older may seek a firearms license, and anyone 18 or older who has applied for a firearms license can seek a permit to possess a military-style semiautomatic weapon.In the United States, the National Rifle Association, a leading advocate of gun-owner rights, issued its first statement on the attack, denouncing the killer while saying nothing about the weapons used.“It doesn’t matter if these senseless tragedies occur in the United States or abroad, our deepest sympathies are with the victims and their families,” said Andrew Arulanandam, a spokesman for the group.“This was the act of a monster. To the extent the N.R.A. is ridiculed for extending our deepest sympathies to those impacted by this horrific event, we make no apologies for our thoughts, words or prayers.”In an exclusive interview with Australia’s 9News, the family of the suspect condemned the attack and offered an apology to the families of the victims.“We’re so sorry for the families over there, for the dead and the injured,” Terry Fitzgerald, the suspect’s uncle, said. “We can’t think nothing else. We just want to go home and hide.”The suspect’s grandmother Marie Fitzgerald, 81, said: “We are all gobsmacked. We don’t know what to think.”“The media is saying he’s planned it for a long time,” she added. “So he’s obviously not of sound mind, I don’t think.”According to the 9News’s report, Brenton Harrison Tarrant had traveled to Europe after his father died of cancer 2010. The trips came at a time when Islamic extremism was on the rise, it said.“It was only since he traveled overseas, I think, that that boy has changed,” Ms. Fitzgerald said.They first learned that Mr. Tarrant was the suspect in the massacre while watching television, the report said. At first, the uncle said, they couldn’t believe it. But then they saw his photo.“It’s unrepairable,” Ms. Fitzgerald said.Brenton Harrison Tarrant, the man charged in the Christchurch shootings, was a member of the Bruce Rifle Club in New Zealand, the club confirmed on Sunday.The club is about a 35-minute drive from Dunedin, New Zealand, where Mr. Tarrant lived. In a statement, the club said it had about 100 members, all of whom are licensed to own and use firearms.Mr. Tarrant joined the Bruce Rifle Club last February, Scott Williams, the club’s vice president, said in an interview. He said Mr. Tarrant appeared to already have shooting skills and typically went to the range by himself.The club told the police on Friday that Mr. Tarrant had been a member, and the police visited the club on Sunday, Mr. Williams said. He said he could not say how often Mr. Tarrant went to the club because his attendance records had been turned over to the police.Mr. Williams said he had seen Mr. Tarrant at the club with a bolt-action hunting rifle and an AR-15 semiautomatic rifle but didn’t know where Mr. Tarrant got them. He said he and other members had seen no indication that Mr. Tarrant had violent intent.“He was just normal,” Mr. Williams said. “He was polite. He would help put things away. He would help set up. He worked like a Trojan.”The club has been closed until further notice, Mr. Williams said.In a live video on Facebook on Saturday, a former member of the New Zealand military named Pete Breidahl said he had reported the Bruce Rifle Club to the police years ago after a visit because he had “serious concerns about the mental stability of some of those members.”He also posted an image of a comment dated Nov. 20, 2017, about the club, in which he said that at least half the members would be going home to “their mums basement and onto the internet for a night of heroic talk in gun forums.”Mr. Williams declined to comment on Mr. Breidahl’s Facebook video.The airport in Dunedin, the city where the suspect in the Christchurch shootings had lived, was closed Sunday evening after a “report of a suspicious package on the airfield,” the authorities said.“Police are at the scene and specialist teams have been deployed to determine the nature of the package,” the New Zealand police said in a statement.Earlier Sunday evening, an armed police officer stood watch outside the address in Dunedin that was listed in court documents as the home of Brenton Harrison Tarrant, the suspect. About a five-minute drive from the center of Dunedin, the second-largest city on the South Island of New Zealand, the pale blue-gray house had air-conditioning units, wide rectangular windows with open curtains, a satellite dish sitting at the top of a cement stairway and an overgrown yard. The mailbox bore a sticker reading: “NO JUNK MAIL. Thank you!”Several people who lived nearby said they did not know many of their neighbors and had not met Mr. Tarrant. They described the neighborhood in the Andersons Bay suburb of Dunedin as a mix of rented and owned homes.Carl Tainui, who lives nearby, was out walking Sunday evening and said he was “shocked” that such “total hatred” had allegedly originated so close to his home.Over the weekend, the police had blocked off the road in the Dunedin neighborhood while a bomb squad searched the area. The street was shut down from Friday evening until midday Saturday. By Sunday evening, journalists swarmed the area, knocking on doors and filming outside Mr. Tarrant’s house.Amy Hanson, 28, moved into a house across the street from Mr. Tarrant’s last year.She said that she had seen Mr. Tarrant’s address listed last week on a rental site for $280 a week and that her sister’s boyfriend had planned to view the property last Tuesday. She said the listing had since been removed.“He must have planned to move out, knew he was going to go to jail or die,” she said. “The weirdest thing is, he is my age. He is so young. I just don’t get it.”Thirty-four victims of the shootings remain in Christchurch Hospital, 12 of them in critical condition, officials said on Sunday.A 4-year-old girl also remains in critical condition at a children’s hospital in Auckland, where she was flown after the attack.A Christchurch Hospital spokesman, David Meates, said that on Saturday the hospital treated nine new victims of the Friday attack. They arrived with cuts, embedded glass fragments and injuries to their backs, knees and feet.Mr. Meates said the hospital was running seven operating theaters on Sunday instead of the usual three.“Many of these people need multiple surgeries due to the complex nature of their injuries, and the need to provide a number of shorter surgeries in a phased way so patients have the best chance of recovery,” he said.Ms. Ardern said the list of people killed was still provisional and that the families of victims would receive financial assistance. She said families would receive the bodies of victims starting Sunday evening, with all bodies expected to be returned by Wednesday.[Here’s how to help the victims of the Christchurch shootings.]A live video posted to social media appeared to show the attack at Al Noor Mosque, where 42 people were killed. The clip appeared to have been taken from a camera worn by a gunman.3 The gunman’s video shows him driving away six minutes after the first shot.1 The gunman parked inthe alley next to the mosque,according to the live video.Al NoorMosqueDeans Ave.2 He openedfire at around1:40 p.m.Re-entered mosque and began firingResumed firingoutside the mosqueShot abystanderFirst shot firedParkedExited mosqueGot new gun fromparked carExitedmosqueDroveaway1 min.later234563 The gunman’s video shows him driving away six minutes after the first shot.1 The gunman parked inthe alley next to the mosque,according to the live video.SouthHagleyParkAl NoorMosqueDeans Ave.2 He opened fire ataround 1:40 p.m.Re-enteredmosque andbegan firingResumed firingoutside the mosqueShot abystanderFirst shot firedParkedExited mosqueGot a new gunfrom the parked carLeft mosqueDroveaway1 minute later234563 The gunman’s video shows him driving away six minutes after the first shot.1 The gunman parked inthe alley next to the mosque,according to the live video.Al NoorMosqueDeans Ave.South Hagley Park2 He opened fire ataround 1:40 p.m.Resumed firingoutside the mosqueRe-entered mosqueand began firingShot abystanderFirst shot firedParkedExited mosqueGot a new gunfrom the parked carLeft mosqueDroveaway1 minute later23456By Jin Wu and Allison McCann | Note: Times are local time.The airline Air New Zealand said one of its employees, Lilik Abdul Hamid, had died in the attack on Friday.The company’s chief executive, Christopher Luxon, said in a statement that Mr. Hamid had been an aircraft maintenance engineer with Air New Zealand for 16 years.“He first got to know the team even earlier when he worked with our aircraft engineers in a previous role overseas,” Mr. Luxon said. “The friendships he made at that time led him to apply for a role in Air New Zealand and make the move to Christchurch.”Mr. Hamid is survived by his wife and two children, Mr. Luxon said.Later on Sunday, the company PricewaterhouseCoopers said that one of its employees, Areeb Ahmed, had also been killed.In a Facebook post, the company said it had learned of Mr. Ahmed’s death from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs in Pakistan.“Areeb was a loved and respected member of our PwC family who lived our values every day,” it said. “His smile, warmth, dedication, respect and humor will be deeply missed.”The prime minister also said that Sheryl Sandberg, the chief operating officer of Facebook, had shared her condolences over the shootings, parts of which were live-streamed on the social media platform.On Sunday, Facebook said it had removed 1.5 million videos of the attack that had been posted worldwide, including 1.2 million that were blocked at upload. The company said it was also removing edited versions of the video that did not show graphic content.The police on Sunday said the death toll had risen to 50 as officials discovered another body at the mosque on Deans Avenue, where most of the victims had been killed. Another 50 people were injured.“As of last night we were able to take all of the victims from both of those scenes and in doing so we have located a further victim,” said Mike Bush, New Zealand’s police commissioner.Mr. Bush said a list of victims’ names has been compiled with the help of senior religious leaders and had been shared with family members. He said the list was an informal one, though, and officials would not confirm the names publicly until the bodies had been formally identified.The bodies have not yet been released to the victims’ families, but Mr. Bush said he was conscious that Muslim religious practice requires prompt burial.“We are aware of the cultural and religious needs so we are doing that as quickly and sensitively as possible,” he said.Police officials say it took 36 minutes from when they received the first call about a shooting at a mosque to when the suspect was taken in custody.“That is an incredibly fast response time,” said John Price, commander of the district police. “You have a mobile offender across a large metropolitan city, and I am very happy with the response of our staff.”“I can tell you that within six minutes of police being called, on 111, within six minutes armed police staff were on the scene,” Mike Bush, New Zealand’s police commissioner, said on Sunday. “Within 10 minutes, our armed offenders squad were on the scene, and within 36 minutes, we had that mobile offender in our custody.”Officials said the gunman arrived at a second mosque, where he continued his rampage, seven minutes after leaving the first.The suspect was later arrested in a car, which was carrying improvised explosive devices, by two police officers. Mr. Bush said the officers prevented further deaths.“Those two police officers acted with absolute courage,” Mr. Bush said on Sunday. “I’m so proud of what they’ve done. They have prevented further deaths and risked their lives doing so.”Prime Minister Jacinda Ardern said that nine minutes before the attack, her office was among more than 30 lawmakers and news organizations that received a manifesto purported to be from the gunman. In accordance with protocol, her office forwarded it to parliamentary security within two minutes of receiving it, she said.Had the manifesto provided details that could have been acted on immediately, Ms. Ardern said, her office would have acted on them. She said she had read parts of the manifesto, which she called “deeply disturbing.”Abdul Aziz, 48, was in the Linwood mosque praying with his four sons when he heard gunshots. He immediately knew something was wrong.Rather than running from the sound, he ran toward it and grabbed the first thing he could find — a credit card machine — and flung it at the attacker. He tried to distract the attacker in a move that many fellow worshipers have described as heroic, weaving through cars in the parking lot, attempting to draw the gunman’s attention away from the mosque.Latef Alabi, the acting imam of Linwood, told The Associated Press he believed the death toll would have been far higher at the mosque without Mr. Aziz’s actions.Mr. Aziz said he saw the attacker drop one of his guns and managed to grab it but when he pulled the trigger, the gun was empty. When the gunman went to his car, presumably to grab more ammunition, Mr. Aziz said he threw the gun at the assailant’s windshield, shattering the glass. The assailant sped away.Mr. Aziz remained humble, saying in an interview with The New York Times that anyone in his position would have done the same. “I was prepared to give my life to save another life,” he said.Originally from Kabul, Afghanistan, Mr. Aziz lived in Australia for 27 years after having fled the violence of his home country. He moved to New Zealand a few years ago, describing it as a beautiful country.Reporting was contributed by Charlotte Graham-McLay, Damien Cave and Jamie Tarabay from Christchurch, New Zealand; Emily Steel from Dunedin, New Zealand; and Sarah Mervosh from New York.AdvertisementSupported byLet us help you start your day.By Alisha Haridasani Gupta(Want to get this briefing by email? Here’s the sign-up.) Good morning. New Zealand investigates how the massacre could have been avoided, China gets a toehold in Europe and Apple prepares to unveil its next big thing. Here’s the latest: Prime Minister Jacinda Ardern ordered an inquiry into whether government agencies could have prevented the attacks at two mosques in Christchurch on Friday that left at least 50 dead.Her cabinet also agreed “in principle” to overhaul the country’s gun laws and will announce reforms “within 10 days of this horrific act of terrorism,” she said at a news conference.The victims: New Zealand’s deputy police commissioner said specialists had worked through the night to identify the people killed at the Al Noor and Linwood mosques. Islamic leaders and victims’ families have been discussing holding a burial for all victims, possibly on Wednesday.The suspect: Our reporter went to the town of Dunedin, home to the suspected gunman, and spoke to people he interacted with, including members of his rifle club.Perspective: Our Opinion section has essays examining the traits white supremacist terrorists have in common and the history of white supremacist violence. At least one gunman opened fire on a tram in the city of Utrecht, killing three people and injuring five more.Officials arrested a suspect — a 37-year-old Turkish-born man — after an eight-hour manhunt, but it’s still unclear whether he was the only person involved in the attack.Authorities said they were looking into the possibility the shooting was an act of terror, with the counterterrorism agency raising its threat assessment to the highest level. They had also ordered the evacuation of all mosques in the city, but it’s unclear if that move stems from a specific threat or as a precaution in the wake of the attack in New Zealand. But they didn’t rule out other motives, and some reports suggested the attack was the result of a domestic dispute.Context: The city of Utrecht has a large immigrant population, with more than 30 percent of residents born outside the Netherlands. The attack took place in the Kanaleneiland neighborhood, home to a large number of Muslims, including immigrants from Morocco and Turkey. This week, President Xi Jinping is expected to arrive in Rome to sign a deal that would make Italy the first Group of 7 nation to participate in Beijing’s global Belt and Road initiative.The deal would open Italy to greater Chinese infrastructure investment in exchange for favorable customs conditions and a faster trade route into the heart of Europe.The vast project is already underway in the port city of Trieste. Construction workers in scuba gear have been laying foundations near the site of a new pier. Other cities up for a transformation include Genoa and Palermo.Concerns: The U.S. and E.U. powers like Germany and France have been wary of Beijing’s Belt and Road project, casting it as an economic and perhaps even military threat.Supporters of the plan in Italy, however, have few reservations, saying the country’s laws protect its autonomy.The kingdom has a history of going after dissidents and other Saudi citizens abroad, but the efforts escalated sharply after Prince Mohammed bin Salman was elevated to crown prince in 2017.The prince authorized a clandestine campaign that included the surveillance, kidnapping, detention and torture of Saudi citizens, according to American officials who have read classified reports about the efforts.Since then, Saudi security forces have detained dozens of clerics, intellectuals and activists who were perceived to pose a threat, as well as people who had posted critical or sarcastic comments about the government on Twitter.Details: At least a dozen missions were carried out by the same team that killed Jamal Khashoggi in October, suggesting that the gruesome murder was part of a broader push, according to officials and associates of some of the Saudi victims.The group behind Mr. Khashoggi’s killing, which American officials called the Saudi Rapid Intervention Group, also forcibly repatriated Saudis from other Arab countries and detained and abused prisoners in palaces belonging to the crown prince and his father, King Salman. Afghanistan: Three months after the country’s soccer chief, Keramuddin Keram, was accused of sexually abusing members of the women’s national team, an investigation has stalled, amid fears it will never proceed.Britain: The speaker of the House of Commons, John Bercow, warned Prime Minister Theresa May that she could not hold a third vote in Parliament on her beleaguered Brexit plan unless it was substantially different from the proposal already been rejected twice.India: Gauri Lankesh, a journalist who railed against the right-wing Hindu-nationalist Bharatiya Janata Party, or B.J.P., was shot dead in September. We take a deep look at her story and what it reveals about the country’s increasingly intolerant politics.The Philippines: A beached whale died with 88 pounds of plastic trash inside its body, an unusually large amount that brought renewed attention to ocean pollution.#MeToo: Nearly 100 female economists in the U.S. say that a peer or colleague has sexually assaulted them, and nearly 200 say they were the victims of an attempted assault, according to a new survey that reveals deep evidence of gender and racial discrimination in the field.Lyft: The ride-hailing app — and Uber’s main rival in North America — hopes to be valued at up to $23 billion, according to filings ahead of its initial public offering, most likely the year’s biggest.The Prado: As Spain’s national art museum celebrates its bicentennial, our writer — who has visited more than 200 times — returned to every gallery, vestibule and passageway.Apple: The tech giant’s next big product isn’t a new device, but a billion-dollar-plus foray into streaming video. The company is expected to reveal details of the project next week.Spain: A bar in Madrid celebrating the dictator Gen. Francisco Franco and catering to the radical right is run by a Chinese man — an irony that has not gone unnoticed by patrons. “We used to joke to him,” one said. “If Franco was still alive, he would kill you.”Tips for a more fulfilling life.Recipe of the day: Sometimes only a hearty pasta dinner will do, like rigatoni with wilted greens, bacon and a fried egg.We all have rivals in our work lives. They’re our closest competitors — and they can be our greatest allies.Doctors answer questions about the benefits and drawbacks of retinols found in skin-care products.New Zealanders have lit candles, piled flowers and stood vigil since a gunman attacked two mosques in Christchurch, killing at least 50 people.They have also performed the haka.The ceremonial dance originated with the Maori, the country’s indigenous Polynesian inhabitants. Warriors danced to intimidate opponents with grimaces, chanting and aggressive postures. But there are also hakas of welcome and hakas for funerals.The form has been embraced by New Zealanders of all origins, most famously by the national rugby team, the All Blacks. Many schools have haka groups, and every two years, there’s a national competition hosted by one of the country’s iwi, or tribes.A variety of haka have been performed for the Christchurch victims. For instance, a biker group, Black Power, used a warlike haka to express solidarity.Others performed one of the most famous hakas, “Ka mate,” a tribute to life in the face of death.Andrea Kannapell, the briefings editor, wrote today’s Back Story.Your Morning Briefing is published weekday mornings and updated online. Sign up here to get it by email in the Australian, Asian, European or American morning. You can also receive an Evening Briefing on U.S. weeknights.And our Australia bureau chief offers a weekly letter adding analysis and conversations with readers.Browse our full range of Times newsletters here.AdvertisementSupported byBy Damien Cave and Emily SteelCHRISTCHURCH, New Zealand — The man accused of carrying out the attack that killed 50 people at two mosques in Christchurch, New Zealand, is expected to represent himself in court, but the country’s prime minister said on Tuesday that she wants to do everything possible to deny him the attention he craves.“He is a terrorist. He is a criminal. He is an extremist,” Prime Minister Jacinda Ardern said in an address to Parliament. “But he will, when I speak, be nameless.”“And to others, I implore you,” she added, “speak the names of those who were lost, rather than the name of the man who took them. He may have sought notoriety, but we in New Zealand will give him nothing. Not even his name.”Her comments — which included a demand for internet platforms like Facebook to do a better job controlling hateful content — reflect a global struggle that has caught this small, open and friendly country by surprise: how to avoid fueling fame for a man accused of killing and his message even as officials and the news media try to better understand the forces that led to his apparent radicalization.[Read more about the victims of the attack, who spanned generations and nationalities.]The push to deny oxygen for what feels like a perpetual flame of hate has been gathering momentum ever since the attack, and reaches beyond the government.On Tuesday, New Zealand’s largest broadband providers published an open letter to the chief executives of Facebook, Twitter and Google, calling on them “to be a part of an urgent discussion at an industry and New Zealand government level” about how to deny access to content created by the suspected killer, Brenton Harrison Tarrant, 28.The companies — Vodafone NZ, Spark and 2degrees — acknowledged suspending access to websites that were hosting video footage of the Friday attacks that had been streamed live online. But they said there was only so much they could do without more engagement from the tech platforms.“Internet service providers are the ambulance at the bottom of the cliff, with blunt tools involving the blocking of sites after the fact,” the companies said, adding that social media companies “have a legal duty of care to protect their users and wider society by preventing the uploading and sharing of content such as this video.”The Association of New Zealand Advertisers also said in a statement Tuesday that local businesses were considering pulling their ads from Facebook, questioning whether they wanted to be “associated with social media platforms unable or unwilling to take responsibility for content on those sites.”“The events in Christchurch raise the question — if the site owners can target consumers with advertising in microseconds, why can’t the same technology be applied to prevent this kind of content being streamed live?” the group said.Facebook, in an effort to combat the criticism, updated details Monday on how the gunman’s video of the shooting spread. The company said that video of the live broadcast was viewed 4,000 times, but it also said that within the first 24 hours it pulled about 1.5 million copied videos of the attack.Of those, more than 1.2 million videos were blocked as they had been uploaded, and the company also said it cut off content that looked or sounded similar.Missing from the data was the total number of views for all versions of the video.[Read about how the Christchurch attack became an internet-native mass shooting.]The gunman’s efforts were clearly choreographed for internet fame and to spread a message of hate. Minutes before the attacks started, he published a manifesto to message boards where white supremacists gather, and included a link to the page where the streaming video of the shooting would appear.But experts say it may not be enough to focus just on that content. New Zealand, like many countries, has often struggled with how seriously to take white supremacy, offline and online.Anjum Rahman, the head of the Islamic Women’s Council of New Zealand, reported that her organization had tried to warn the government for years about growing vitriol toward Muslims and the rise of the so-called alt-right in New Zealand. In an op-ed for The Spinoff, a news website, she said her organization had asked for help from New Zealand’s security agencies and had written a “comprehensive report” for the government five years ago, outlining the group’s concerns.“As far as we know, nothing concrete was done with that report,” she wrote.In fact, one of the two mosques attacked Friday had pigs’ heads delivered to it in 2016 by men who gave Nazi salutes.Jarrod Gilbert, a University of Canterbury sociologist who studies gangs in New Zealand, said that when Christchurch had a problem in the 1980s and 1990s with white supremacist skinheads, the authorities tended to dismiss them as a fringe group “because people never really wanted them here.”He and other experts said it was important to distinguish between those gangs, which tended to draw lower-class and disenfranchised members, and the alt-right, which pulls in a wider demographic that’s more unpredictable and engaged with the theory and rhetoric of white nationalism.“They’re entirely different, and this poses very different challenges,” he said. “The street thugs are easy to monitor, count, and counter; international online communities are very difficult to monitor.”[How The Times covered the shootings.]Part of the issue is that these groups are often private, hard to find and steeped in anonymity, and their words rarely translate into action.And yet what the Christchurch attacks now show — according to government officials, including the prime minister — is that these groups need to be carefully watched because a handful of adherents may be motivated to act violently.“There is no question that ideas and language of division and hate have existed for decades, but their form of distribution, the tools of organization — they are new,” Ms. Ardern said Tuesday.And in the aftermath of such attacks, the cycle of attention can amplify risk. Studies have shown that terrorists often try to up the ante from the last high-profile attack. Ms. Ardern said Monday that her government was dealing with a flood of copycat threats and messages of hate.The multiplier effect could also be seen on websites where white supremacists have tended to gather. While websites for at least two white nationalist groups in New Zealand — the New Zealand National Front and Dominion Movement — were disabled in the wake of Friday’s shooting, cached versions still allow readers to view the immediate responses to attacks.On a cached site for the National Front, which has campaigned under the slogan, “It’s O.K. to be white,” reactions to the attack were divided. Some commenters expressed compassion for the victims, while others said the shootings were a “natural outcome.”“This is ‘bad optics.’ I hope and pray that no one in the ethno-nationalist community has had anything to do with this,” one person wrote. “Because we know what’s coming: government crackdown, surveillance, increased gun control and an emboldened Antifa harassing us.”Another person called the shootings a “brutal wake-up call” and said the victims deserved “no sympathy.”A user called Celtic Warrior said, “Harsh medicine, indeed, but sadly, very necessary.”The Dominion Movement is a year-old group that describes itself as a “fraternity of young New Zealand nationalists” united by the belief that “Europeans are the defining people of this nation and that they were essential in its creation.”“We oppose the animosity and contempt this system holds for us and our people, we reject the entire concept of White guilt,” a cached version of its website reads.As of Tuesday, the group’s Twitter and Instagram accounts had been suspended.Whether these groups or others have a chance to amplify whatever Mr. Tarrant says when he appears in court — his next appearance is scheduled for April 5 — is still unknown. The judge in the case could ban cameras or find other ways to suppress information, according to lawyers.Richard Peters, the duty lawyer at the suspected gunman’s first court appearance Saturday, said he didn’t know whether the man’s decision to represent himself would draw more attention to the case or less.But for Ms. Ardern and many others, his efforts are best ignored, in court, and on the internet.“I don’t have all of the answers now, but we must collectively find them,” she said. “And we must act.”Charlotte Graham-McLay contributed reporting.Want more coverage from Australia and New Zealand? Sign up for the weekly Australia Letter, start your day with your local Morning Briefing and join us in our Facebook group.AdvertisementSupported byBy ReutersSydney (Reuters) - Australia's Senate censured an independent right-wing lawmaker on Wednesday for his comments that New Zealand's mosques shooting massacre which left 50 people dead was a result of letting "Muslim fanatics" migrate to the country.Senator Fraser Anning has been widely condemned for his comments made shortly after a lone gunman attacked two mosques in Christchurch on March 15."There is no room for racism in Australia. Sadly, what Senator Anning said after the Christchurch massacre, however shocking isn't out of character," Australian Muslim Senator Mehreen Faruqi told the Senate."Just a week before I joined this place, he gave a speech calling for a ban on people like me coming to this country."Australian Brenton Tarrant, 28, a suspected white supremacist, has been charged with one murder following the attack and was remanded without a plea. He is due back in court on April 5, when police said he was likely to face more charges.Sitting for the first time since the attack, Australia's upper house overwhelmingly passed a censure motion against Anning - the first such public rebuke of a lawmaker in four years. A censure motion has no direct legal consequences but acts as an expression of the Senate's disapproval.Senator Anning denied he had blamed the victims, insisting the censure was an attack on his civil liberties."This censure motion against me is a blatant attack on free speech," Anning told Reuters via email. Leaders of the major parties in the Senate condemned Anning's comments, with opposition Labor Senator Penny Wong rejecting his "free speech" defense."There is a difference between freedom of speech and hate speech. The former is a feature of our democracy. The latter is an attack on democracy," Wong said."This motion makes it clear he doesn’t speak for us. He doesn’t speak for the Senate. He doesn’t speak for this nation. He doesn’t represent Australian values."AdvertisementSupported byBy Damien CaveCHRISTCHURCH, New Zealand — One week after a terrorist attack that killed 50 people at two mosques in Christchurch, New Zealand, mourners who came from around the world honored the dead Friday by sharing the Muslim call to prayer and two minutes of silence.In a park across from Al Noor Mosque, where 42 worshipers were killed, traditional Friday Prayer became a communal event, drawing together Muslims from afar, relatives of the dead and New Zealanders in headscarves experiencing an Islamic service for the first time.“This terrorist sought to tear our nation apart with an evil ideology that has torn the world apart — but instead we have shown that New Zealand is unbreakable,” Imam Gamal Fouda of Al Noor Mosque said, drawing applause from those gathered.“Islamophobia kills,” he said later, adding: “The rise of white supremacy and right-wing extremism is a great global threat to mankind and this must end now.”His comments, mixing appreciation with broader warnings about hate and fear, came on a day when Christchurch buried at least 26 of the victims killed in the terrorist attack.With a few exceptions, the process of releasing bodies to families was finally coming to a close seven days after the massacre, prompting waves of sadness, relief and reflection.[Read more about the victims of the attack, who spanned generations and nationalities, and their families’ struggle for closure.]The mood at the park — between the mosque’s golden dome and Christchurch Hospital, where 27 of the 42 people wounded in the attack remained under care — was solemn and cautious.“People are very sad and very weary and sometimes frightened,” said Rachael Larkin, 56, an environmental scientist from Christchurch who attended Friday’s prayer service. “But we’re also very proud.”The past few days have included a flood of proposed solutions to the violence, along with challenges.On Thursday, Prime Minister Jacinda Ardern unveiled a ban on military-style semiautomatic weapons and the ammunition and parts that were used in the shootings — an overhaul of gun laws that she hopes to have fully in place by April 11.Her quick action is a source of pride for many New Zealanders. Within the first few hours of the prime minister’s announcement, more than 300 gun owners filled out forms to turn in weapons that were the targets of the ban.Ms. Ardern also pledged this week to work with other countries on holding social media companies accountable for letting hateful speech thrive on their platforms.Funerals, which were few and far between for most of the week as families pressed officials for the bodies of their loves ones, suddenly were being conducted with heartbreaking efficiency.At Linwood Cemetery, where 50 graves waited to be filled near a large eucalyptus tree, imams told a crowd of thousands to make room for family members who moved ahead slowly in groups every few minutes to pray and then carry their dead.“We did not expect this,” one of the imams leading the service said, “but it is not we who decide — it is Allah.”The first person buried Friday was Naeem Rashid, who tried to tackle the gunman in Al Noor before being shot and killed. Relatives from Pakistan and Christchurch moved in unison as they carried his body above their shoulders.He was followed by 27 more, including the 3-year-old Mucaad Ibrahim, the youngest killed in the shooting, and Atta Elayyan, 33, a New Zealand futsal player who ran an app development company.With each procession, the mourning family spoke the Janazah funeral prayer inside a white tent, then moved on to make room for the next group of grieving relatives.“We will call all the families, and all the families will get a chance to stand with their loved ones,” said Sheikh Mohammad Amir, the chairman of the religious advisory board of the Federation of Islamic Associations of New Zealand.Near the edge of the cemetery, photographers and camera crews from around the world captured the series of final goodbyes. The day before, six people had been buried.“There are some people who wanted to get it over with quickly,” said Mustafa Farouk, the federation’s president. “There were some others thinking ‘This doesn’t just affect us, it affects the whole world — and maybe there should be some light from this darkness.’”Finding hope but also resolve seemed to be the focus at the prayer service. Imam Fouda began with a direct reference to his own experience with the suspected gunman, Brenton H. Tarrant.“Last Friday, I stood in this mosque and saw hatred and rage in the eyes of the terrorist who killed and martyred 50 innocent people, wounded 42 and broke the hearts of millions around the world,” he said.“Today,” he continued, “from the same place, I look out and I see the love and compassion in the eyes of thousands of fellow New Zealanders and human beings from across the globe, that fills the hearts of millions more who are not with us physically but in spirit.”He thanked the emergency medical workers and all who attended, calling them his “Muslim and non-Muslim brothers.”But he also said the attacks “did not come overnight.”“It was the result of the anti-Muslim rhetoric of some political leaders, media agencies and others,” he said.He added: “Last week’s event is proof and evidence to the entire world that terrorism has no color, has no race, and has no religion.”Ms. Ardern, in her own short speech, echoed those thoughts and those of many others who were sitting silently in the grass.“New Zealand mourns with you,” she said. “We are one.”AdvertisementSupported byBy Catie EdmondsonWASHINGTON — The House this week is set to pass the first major gun control legislation in over two decades, with Democratic lawmakers expected to approve two measures strengthening background checks for all firearms sales.The last time the House put high-profile legislation expanding gun control laws to a vote was in 1994, when it passed the Federal Assault Weapons Ban and made it illegal to manufacture a number of semiautomatic weapons for civilian use. That legislation expired after a decade and was not renewed by a Republican-controlled Congress.But riding a new wave of urgency after a series of mass shootings — and the activism inspired by the school massacre in Parkland, Fla., last February in which 17 students and teachers were killed — House Democrats have pledged to take meaningful action on the issue, beginning with the twin bills.Here’s what you need to know about the measures and their odds in the Senate.The Bipartisan Background Checks Act, which the House will take up on Wednesday, requires universal background checks, closing a loophole for buyers at gun shows and online. The legislation, sponsored by Representative Mike Thompson, Democrat of California and the chairman of the House Gun Violence Prevention Task Force, also prohibits firearms transfers by a person who is not a licensed dealer. There are a number of exceptions, though, such as a family member giving a firearm as a gift, or lending a gun to someone in imminent danger.The second piece of legislation, the Enhanced Background Checks Act, will be voted on Thursday. Sponsored by Representative James E. Clyburn of South Carolina, the majority whip, the bill seeks to extend the initial background check review period to 10 days from three.Under federal law, the F.B.I. has three business days to perform its review and determine whether there is sufficient evidence to deny a purchase. If it is unable to do so, on the fourth day, the customer can return to the dealer and buy a gun. That loophole allowed Dylann S. Roof, the man who killed nine people at a historically black church in Charleston, S.C., in 2015, to purchase a .45-caliber handgun even though he had previously admitted to drug possession, which should have barred him from legally obtaining the weapon.A vast majority of guns used in 19 recent mass shootings — including those in Newtown, Conn.; San Bernardino, Calif.; and Las Vegas — were bought legally and after the gunman passed a federal background check. At least nine attackers had criminal histories or documented mental health problems that did not prevent them from obtaining their weapons.“The new gun control restrictions currently being considered by the Democratic majority in H.R. 8 would not have prevented my shooting,” Representative Steve Scalise of Louisiana, the Republican whip, said of the Bipartisan Background Checks Act. Mr. Scalise was gravely wounded in 2017 when a gunman fired on members of the Republican congressional baseball team while they were practicing in Virginia.But gun control advocates have praised the measures as a meaningful step toward change, and described the legislation as a necessary foundation for future work. Last year, the existing background check system identified and denied 88,000 gun sales to prohibited buyers including criminals and domestic abusers, according to Mr. Thompson’s office — but those same people are currently able to make purchases at gun shows or online.“We have fairly weak gun laws and we have loopholes that make it easy to have the levels of gun violence that we have right now, and we certainly have to do more to address it,” said Robin Lloyd, the managing director of the Giffords Law Center to Prevent Gun Violence. “But it is a critical first step.”The bills introduced by House Democrats closely mirror the last major attempt in the Senate to pass a gun control measure. Efforts led by Senator Patrick J. Toomey, Republican of Pennsylvania, and Senator Joe Manchin III, Democrat of West Virginia, to require background checks at gun shows and online failed in the Democratic-led Senate in 2013 and again in the Republican-led Senate in 2015.Otherwise, in the last two decades, most firearms legislation taken up by Congress has aimed to relax gun laws, such as attempts in the House and Senate to pass a concealed-carry reciprocity law allowing a person permitted to carry a concealed weapon in one state to carry it in every state.AdvertisementSupported byBy The Associated PressYour daily look at late-breaking news, upcoming events and the stories that will be talked about today:1. HOW MANY WAYS YOU CAN MEASURE 1ST QUARTER OF YEARFor Democratic presidential candidates, it is 300-plus events, 24 states and hundreds of voter questions — and that's 10 months out from the Iowa caucus.2. LAPD IDENTIFIES SUSPECT IN NIPSEY HUSSLE SLAYINGPolice are searching for 29-year-old Eric Holder, who they believe shot and killed the rapper outside his clothing store where he was trying to remake his South Los Angeles community.3. EU CHIEF NEGOTIATOR PESSIMISTIC OF DEALMichel Barnier says that Britain's disorderly exit from the bloc without a deal is becoming more likely by the day, though he still hopes to avoid it.4. CHICAGO ABOUT TO MAKE MAYORAL HISTORYWhen they meet in a runoff election, either Lori Lightfoot or Toni Preckwinkle will be the first African American woman to lead the nation's third largest city.5. WHAT MAY NEVER BE SOLVEDThe real masterminds behind the murder of North Korean leader Kim Jong Un's estranged half brother may never be brought to justice.6. POPE: WOMEN HAVE 'LEGITIMATE CLAIMS' FOR JUSTICE, EQUALITYBut Francis stops short of endorsing more sweeping calls from his own bishops to give women decision-making roles in the Catholic Church.7. AMSTERDAM SEX WORKERS SEE RED OVER TOUR BANThe sex workers' union questions whether banning red light district tours will reduce tourists and argues that guides educate visitors and teach respect.8. NEW ZEALAND PASSES NEW GUN CONTROL MEASURELawmakers overwhelmingly back a bill that would ban the types of weapons a gunman used last month to kill 50 people at two mosques.9. WHO'S RUNNING FOR OFFICEMichael Brown's mother could soon have oversight over the police department connected to her son's death, if voters in Ferguson, Missouri, elect her to the City Council.AdvertisementSupported byBy Timothy Williams and Sean PiccoliMuslims in cities across the United States walked past heavily armed police officers to attend services Friday, hours after a gunman killed at least 49 people at two mosques in New Zealand. They pored over news reports with a mixture of grief and disgust, feeling familiar fears of being targeted for their religious beliefs.Throughout a tense day, law enforcement officials and political leaders assured Muslims that they would be protected as they prepared for Friday Prayer, the very thing the victims had been doing when they died.[Read our live briefing for the latest updates on the attacks.]The news trickled out overnight in dread-inducing bulletins as the death toll climbed by the hour. The United States is home to about 3.5 million Muslims, or 1 percent of the nation’s population. Some said they had stayed up all night, unable to tear themselves away from the coverage, as difficult as it was to take in.Nihad Awad, national executive director of the Council on American-Islamic Relations, the country’s largest Muslim civil rights and advocacy organization, said that Muslims around the world were in mourning and that the attacks were part of a rising intolerance in the United States and abroad.“Do not be afraid, and do not abandon your mosques — not today, not ever,” Mr. Awad said at a news conference in Washington. “They want you to be afraid. You should not be afraid.”Police departments in major American cities intensified security around houses of worship. At some mosques in New York, clusters of police officers wearing tactical gear and armed with semiautomatic rifles stood sentry as worshipers entered for prayer.Mayor Bill de Blasio said that the city had increased its police presence at mosques “out of an abundance of caution.”“New Yorkers heading to prayer can be confident that their city will protect them,” he said.At the At-Taqwa mosque in Brooklyn’s Bedford-Stuyvesant neighborhood, three officers from the 79th Precinct stood out front greeting people.Saydu Bah, 39, who said he came frequently to worship at the mosque, stood fixated on his phone. He was watching what he said was a video of the attack that had been filmed by the gunman. The footage appeared on social media throughout the day despite attempts by Facebook, YouTube and Twitter to remove copies.“You saw?” he asked in disbelief, holding up his phone and then narrating what was happening. “He kept killing, killing, killing. Nobody stopped him.”At a mobile phone supply store nearby, Mouaad Youssef, an 18-year-old college student, stood behind the counter, talking with worshipers who had stopped by.He too had seen the massacre video. “I didn’t even want to look at it,” said Mr. Youssef, who is Muslim. “It is very bad.”He paraphrased a passage from the Quran about killing, saying, “Only God gave a soul to humanity, and he’s the only one who has the right to take it.”In Pittsburgh, where an attack last year on the Tree of Life synagogue killed 11 people, city officials said they had “heavy hearts and an all-too-intimate understanding of what the people of New Zealand are enduring.”The city said its officers had been in contact with local Muslim leaders and had increased patrols at mosques and other areas.The Jewish Federation of Greater Pittsburgh said that it had begun raising funds for the Muslim community in New Zealand. After last year’s mass shooting, Muslim organizations donated more than $200,000 to support Pittsburgh’s Jewish community.And in St. Paul, home to a large Muslim community, the Police Department assured residents that they would be protected.“We want our Muslim family members, friends and neighbors to know that we’ll do everything possible to keep you safe and secure in the city we share,” the department said on Twitter.Across the Mississippi River in North Minneapolis, Makram N. El-Amin, the imam at the Masjid An-Nur, or Mosque of Light, told worshipers that the dead in New Zealand had been doing what hundreds of millions of other Muslims take part in each week: a simple observance of Friday Prayer.“They were doing nothing more than trying to live their best lives and respond to the call of Islam,” he said. “There’s a vulnerability here.”President Trump denounced the attacks. “My warmest sympathy and best wishes goes out to the people of New Zealand after the horrible massacre in the Mosques’” he wrote on Twitter. “The U.S. stands by New Zealand for anything we can do. God bless all!”For some, the killings at the mosque revived criticism that political leaders had been partly responsible for creating an environment that had made people comfortable expressing hateful views.“The president’s rhetoric is part of the problem,” said Iman Boukadoum, a senior staff attorney with the American-Arab Anti-Discrimination Committee, a civil rights organization based in Washington.Although some Muslims expressed trepidation about worshiping on Friday, many mosques said turnout was about average.At the Masjid An-Nur in North Minneapolis, Omar Aded, 48, said he had learned about the New Zealand attacks while watching CNN.“It’s very painful,” Mr. Aded said. “No one should target another, no matter what religion — Jewish, Muslim or Christian.”“But there can be no revenge,” he added. “We have to look past the violence.”Matt Furber and Mitch Smith contributed reporting.AdvertisementSupported byBy Sarah Mervosh and Mihir ZaveriThe authorities have charged a suspect with capital murder in the fatal shooting of 7-year-old Jazmine Barnes, as an emotional case that moved the Houston community and evoked racial tensions nationwide took an unexpected turn on Sunday.The authorities identified the suspect, Eric Black Jr., 20, and said he admitted to taking part in the Dec. 30 shooting.Contrary to initial reports that the suspect was white, Mr. Black is black. It was a revelation that swiftly changed the narrative of a case that had drawn the attention of national civil rights activists amid speculation that the shooting was racially motivated.The authorities believe that Mr. Black, along with an accomplice, thought they were shooting at someone else when they opened fire on Jazmine and her family, who were in a car on an early morning coffee run.“This is most likely a case of mistaken identity,” Sheriff Ed Gonzalez of Harris County said at a news conference on Sunday.But to civil rights activists, including Shaun King, who received the tip that led to the arrest, the race of the suspect did not upend the meaning of the case — for Jazmine’s family or for the country.“We live in a time where somebody could do something like this based purely on hate or race,” he said on Sunday. “And that it turned out to not be the case I don’t think changes the devastating conclusion that people had thought something like that was possible.”The tip named Mr. Black and another man, identified by prosecutors by the initials L.W. A lawyer for Jazmine’s family, Lee Merritt, named the second suspect as Larry Woodruffe, 24, who is also black. A man with that name was booked into the Harris County jail on Sunday on a drug possession charge.At a hearing to set the bond amount in that case, prosecutors said that Mr. Woodruffe was also a suspect in a capital murder investigation, and a judge noted that Mr. Woodruffe could possibly face additional charges.Sheriff Gonzalez acknowledged a second person was involved but would not comment on their identity. He said the second person had not been charged in Jazmine’s death as of Sunday afternoon, but said that charges could be filed. Lawyers for the men could not be immediately reached for comment on Sunday.[Hundreds gathered this weekend to honor Jazmine and fight for justice in her case. Read more about the rally here.]The capital murder charge filed against Mr. Black came after a weeklong search in a case that seemed to offer few clues. Jazmine was with her mother and three sisters just before 7 a.m. when, the authorities said, a man in a truck pulled up beside them and began shooting. A bullet struck Jazmine in the head and she died at the scene, the authorities said.The authorities released grainy images of a red pickup truck and a sketch of the suspect, describing him as a thin white man in his 30s or 40s.Sheriff Gonzalez said there was indeed a red pickup truck that came to a stop at a traffic signal next to Jazmine and her family, near a Walmart in the Houston area where the shooting happened. But the authorities now believe that driver could be a witness to the shooting.Jazmine was with her mother, LaPorsha Washington, and her sisters, including a 6-year-old and two teenagers, the authorities said. Ms. Washington, who was injured in the shooting, told CNN she did not see the gunman but her teenage daughter described him as a white man with blue eyes.“This just went down very quickly,” Sheriff Gonzalez said. “When the gunfire erupted, we are talking about small children, they witnessed something very traumatic. And it’s very likely the last thing they did see was that red truck and the driver in that truck.”Research has shown that stress levels and conditions at the time of a crime can undercut the accuracy of eyewitness identification. The sheriff and the family said the sun had not yet risen when the shooting happened.“Eyewitness testimony is the least reliable evidence you can have,” said Lori Brown, a criminologist at Meredith College in North Carolina, who said that people generally try to understand how a traumatic event could have happened by using what they know about the world. “Unfortunately,” she said, “we fill in the gaps.”After Jazmine’s killing, the public mobilized to help the family. On Saturday, the day before the arrest was announced, nearly 1,000 people gathered at a rally in Houston, clutching banners and shouting for justice for Jazmine, who was in second grade at a Houston-area school.DeAndre Hopkins, a wide receiver for the Houston Texans, had pledged to donate his paycheck from this weekend’s playoff game, which amounts to $29,000, to help pay for Jazmine’s funeral. And Mr. King, a prominent racial justice activist and a columnist at The Intercept, had raised a $100,000 reward for information leading to the gunman’s arrest.Mr. King, who has five children, including a 6-year-old daughter, said he did not get involved in the case because he thought the gunman was white.“I internalized the pain of the family and tried to search as if it were my own child who was killed,” he said.He said he would move forward with distributing the reward money to the anonymous tipster should the person claim it. “Whether it fits the direction people thought the case was going or not,” he said, “it took tremendous courage for somebody to report this.”Mr. Merritt, the civil rights attorney who is representing the family, said he was glad that the racial implications of the case were taken seriously — and that Jazmine’s death got widespread attention.But it “shouldn’t only be weaponized for political purposes when the suspected killer is white,” he said. “The whole movement of Black Lives Matter is about the attention and care that is given to people of color in the face of violence.”Mr. Merritt said that while the arrest came as a surprise to Jazmine’s family, it also came as a relief, as they mourned and prepared for her burial on Tuesday.“They didn’t want a white person to be prosecuted,” he said. “They wanted the right person to be prosecuted.”Sandra E. Garcia contributed reporting.AdvertisementSupported byBy Richard Pйrez-PeсaLONDON — Dutch prosecutors said on Thursday that they planned to bring terrorism charges against a man suspected of killing three people on a tram in the city of Utrecht, in addition to multiple counts of murder or manslaughter.In a statement, the public prosecutor’s office in the Netherlands suggested that the mental health of the suspect, Gokmen Tanis, was also under investigation, as well as his motives.“It’s being investigated if the suspect acted out of solely terrorist motive or that his actions came from personal problems in combination with radicalized ideology,” prosecutors said. “The Dutch Institute for Forensic Psychiatry and Psychology will be asked to conduct an investigation of the suspect’s personality.”Mr. Tanis, 37, is scheduled to be arraigned on Friday in his first court appearance in connection with the shootings in Utrecht.The office said that Mr. Tanis was suspected of murder or manslaughter with terrorist intent, attempted murder or manslaughter, and threats with terrorist intent. The attack on Monday on a busy tram left three people dead and five more injured.People in Utrecht who know Mr. Tanis, who was born in Turkey, say he was erratic and sometimes violent, and recently espoused a strict form of Islam. He had been arrested multiple times and was facing a rape charge.The tram shooting occurred three days after 50 people were killed in attacks on two mosques in Christchurch, New Zealand, but there was no evidence that the events in Utrecht were linked to that massacre.Dutch prosecutors did not say what evidence pointed toward terrorism, but the police have said that a note found in a stolen car that the gunman used to flee the scene supported that suspicion. Officials have not said what was in the note.So far, prosecutor’s office said, the evidence suggested “that the suspect did not have help from other persons during the shooting.”An 40-year-old man whom the police have not identified publicly has been detained since Tuesday. Prosecutors said that he did not take part in the attack, but that they were still investigating whether “he possibly had a supporting role.” Others detained this week were not involved and had been released, the police have said.Some who know Mr. Tanis and his family in the Netherlands and in Turkey have suggested that the shooting stemmed from a domestic dispute. But prosecutors and the police have said that there was no indication that he knew any of the victims.Claire Moses contributed reporting.AdvertisementSupported byBy Kate TaylorPeople on opposite sides of the debate about guns apparently can’t agree on anything these days — not even the meaning of a string of pearls.On Tuesday, liberal activists expressed outrage at a group of male New Hampshire legislators who wore pearl necklaces at a committee hearing. Shannon Watts, the founder of a gun control group, Moms Demand Action for Gun Sense in America, posted an image of the lawmakers, all Republicans, on Twitter and accused them of mocking her group’s volunteers and others who were testifying.Male New Hampshire lawmakers on the hearing committee wearing pearls to mock @MomsDemand volunteers and gun safety advocates. #NHPolitics pic.twitter.com/rc1S3Bj9lGThe intended message of the pearls wasn’t entirely clear, though one interpretation was that the lawmakers were trying to paint members of the group as “pearl clutchers” — suggesting that they were being overly sensitive. People responding to the tweet attacked the men pictured, calling them bullies and their behavior malicious and cruel.Two Democratic presidential hopefuls, Senators Cory Booker and Kamala Harris, weighed in on Twitter in support of Moms Demand Action, which is an arm of Everytown For Gun Safety, the gun control group financed by Michael Bloomberg. “These moms are fighting to confront gun violence and protect our children,” Ms. Harris said. “They don’t deserve to be mocked.”But a different narrative soon emerged: Kimberly Morin, the president of a gun rights group that also attended the hearing, told The New Hampshire Union Leader that her group had distributed the pearls. The hearing was over a proposed “red flag” bill, which would allow courts to temporarily take away guns from people found to be an immediate risk to themselves or others.In an interview on Wednesday, Ms. Morin said the pearls were not meant to mock anyone, but had for years been a symbol for her group, the Women’s Defense League of New Hampshire, which offers firearms training to women as well as advocating gun rights.“She’s lying,” Ms. Morin said of Ms. Watts, the founder of Moms Demand Action. “That’s my comment — she’s lying.”For her part, Ms. Watts said Ms. Morin’s group was backing away from the necklaces’ original intent. “It started out meant to mock Moms Demand Action volunteers,” she insisted.Ms. Morin traced the origin of the symbolic pearls to 2015. After a hearing that year on a bill to allow people to carry concealed guns without a permit, an anonymous Moms Demand Action volunteer was quoted as saying that many potential opponents of the bill didn’t testify because they were intimidated, Ms. Morin said.“People really don’t like to come and stand in front of a ‘firing squad’ — a group of people with guns,” the volunteer told WMUR, a local television station.Ms. Morin said her group found the statement absurd. That day, some in her group were dressed in business suits — and as it happened, pearls — hardly the attire of a “firing squad.” It was that sequence of events that led the group to make pearls their signature, she said. (The bill was ultimately signed by Gov. Chris Sununu in 2017 at a ceremony rife with pearl necklaces.)New Hampshire has among the least restrictive gun laws in the country, and support for gun rights is strong. Democrats took control of both chambers of the legislature in November and are now pushing a package of bills aimed at setting limits on guns, including bills requiring background checks for commercial gun purchases, creating a waiting period between the purchase and delivery of a gun, and allowing school districts to create gun-free zones.The bills face considerable odds, given that Mr. Sununu, a Republican, has expressed opposition to any changes to the state’s gun laws, a position his spokesman reiterated on Wednesday.AdvertisementSupported byBy Emily CochraneWASHINGTON — The House on Thursday rebuffed a furious lobbying campaign by the National Rifle Association and approved a revamped Violence Against Women Act that would expand law enforcement’s ability to restrict gun purchases by convicted domestic abusers.The legislation passed easily, 263 to 158, but the divided vote came on what was once a broadly bipartisan measure first passed in 1994. In recent years, partisan rancor over efforts to expand the protections of the legislation have clouded efforts to renew it, and this year, the divide was over gun control.The provisions would close the so-called boyfriend loophole and bar those under a restraining order or who were convicted of abusing, assaulting or stalking a domestic partner from buying guns. The N.R.A. seized on the new measures and warned Congress that it would track and publish how lawmakers voted, hoping to intimidate Republicans and Democrats in Republican-leaning districts.“Do not let the N.R.A. bully you,” Representative Debbie Dingell, Democrat of Michigan, urged her colleagues before the vote, noting that her recently deceased husband, former Representative John Dingell Jr., also a Democrat, was a member of the organization.Thirty-three Republicans bucked the threat and voted with the Democratic majority in favor of the legislation — among them, Representative Brian Fitzpatrick of Pennsylvania, the sole Republican sponsor of the reauthorization. Representative Jeff Fortenberry, Republican of Nebraska, voted present.Democrats, including all of the freshman members who won in districts swept by Donald J. Trump in 2016, stood up to the gun lobby, with only one — Representative Collin C. Peterson of Minnesota — voting no.Many in the new majority campaigned on tightening access to guns, and they appeared to embrace condemnation from the gun lobby as a badge of honor.“Lawmakers should be reading the tea leaves,” said Shannon Watts, the founder of Moms Demand Action for Gun Sense in America, a group that supports restricting gun laws. “In the midterm elections, it was gun safety that got people to the polls.”Other supporters of the legislation argued that the gun provisions made up only a fraction of the protections offered by the bill, and included invaluable resources for survivors.“This wasn’t a gun bill — this is a bill to protect women,” said Lisette Johnson, a member of the Everytown Survivor Network and a survivor of domestic abuse. “This passing today is really a huge support for women and keeping them safer.”Republicans had advocated a clean one-year extension of the current law, which expired in February, arguing that new elements of the legislation were controversial and overreached — in particular, the gun restrictions and language offering additional protections to transgender people.“Can we stop playing political games at the expense of vulnerable women?” asked Representative Elise Stefanik, Republican of New York, before the vote, arguing that the bill put forward by Democrats would “collect dust in the Senate.” (Democrats, who booed vigorously during her speech, rejected her motion.)The vote highlighted the stark contrasts between the new Democratic majority, with its historic number of women, and the Republican minority, which has struggled to attract female voters and to increase the number of conservative women holding office on Capitol Hill. Democrats framed opposition to the legislation’s renewal as a denial of protections for survivors of abuse, efforts to prevent domestic violence and support for law enforcement.Representative Sharice Davids, Democrat of Kansas and one of the first two Native American women elected to Congress in November, presided over the final vote on the measure, which contains a number of protections for women on tribal lands — including a new provision that would allow tribal courts to prosecute nonnative people accused of domestic crimes or dating violence on tribal lands.A number of Democrats, including Ms. Dingell and Representative Katie Porter of California, offered passionate defenses of the legislation, repeatedly drawing on their own experiences as survivors of domestic abuse.“I know that fear, I know that terror and I just want to try to save another family from going through that terror,” Ms. Dingell said at a news conference on Wednesday, recalling being afraid as a child that her father, who had mental illness and owned a gun, would harm her mother or her siblings. “Why would you not close that loophole?”Republicans, beyond objecting to what they said was an infringement on gun ownership, argued that the measure contained other proposals that were too broad for a law intended to protect survivors of assault. In previous hearings and speeches, they had singled out provisions that would expand protections for transgender people and require the Bureau of Prisons to consider the safety and protection of transgender prisoners when giving housing assignments.“We find ourselves debating a VAWA reauthorization act that is literally a Christmas tree of progressive liberal policy objectives, rather than an honest approach to reforming and updating such an important law,” said Representative Debbie Lesko, Republican of Arizona, who is a survivor of domestic abuse.The legislation heads to the Senate, where Senators Dianne Feinstein, Democrat of California, and Joni Ernst, Republican of Iowa, have said they will lead efforts to pass a version. It is unclear how many of the new gun provisions in the House legislation will prevail in the Republican-controlled Senate.“There are a number of improvements in the House bill that I think should be in our version, including preserving improvements already made in the 2013 reauthorization,” Ms. Feinstein said in a statement after the vote. “I hope the Senate will move quickly. This is an important law and one the Senate should take very seriously and act upon expeditiously.”AdvertisementSupported byBy Sheryl Gay StolbergWASHINGTON — The National Rifle Association, the nation’s largest gun lobby, has settled on its next target on Capitol Hill: blocking Congress from reauthorizing the Violence Against Women Act, a 1994 law that assists victims of domestic and sexual violence.The House is set to vote on the legislation this week; the law expired in February. But the bill includes a new provision — aimed at curbing sexual violence by expanding law enforcement’s ability to strip domestic abusers of their guns — that the N.R.A. does not like. The measure closes the so-called boyfriend loophole by barring those convicted of abusing, assaulting or stalking a dating partner or those subject to a court restraining order from buying or owning firearms.Under current federal law, those convicted of domestic abuse can lose their guns if they are — or were formerly — married to their victim, live with their victim, have a child with their victim or are a parent or guardian of their victim. The proposed provision would extend those who can be convicted of domestic abuse to include stalkers and current or former boyfriends or dating partners.Jennifer Baker, a spokeswoman for the N.R.A., said that for “many of those ‘offenses’ — and I’m using air quotes here — the behavior that would qualify as a stalking offense is often not violent or threatening; it involves no personal contact whatsoever.” She argues that the new provision is “too broad and ripe for abuse.”“Like if you were sending harassing messages to somebody on Facebook, to somebody you never met or somebody you dated five years ago,” she said, adding, “How it’s written right now, you could be convicted for a misdemeanor stalking offense for a tweet that causes someone emotional distress and then you would be prohibited from owning a firearm.”Others find the N.R.A.’s argument far-fetched. “A single tweet or Facebook message, without significant other conduct, would ordinarily not be enough” to result in a conviction for stalking, said David Keck, director of the National Resource Center on Domestic Violence and Firearms, which provides guidance to law enforcement and governments on implementing firearms prohibitions, but takes no position on the new domestic violence act provision.And times have changed for the gun lobby. A wave of freshman Democrats in Congress were elected on a promise to enact new gun restrictions, and they proudly campaigned against the N.R.A.“The No. 1 way that women are being killed with guns is by their beloveds, their boyfriends, their significant others,” said one of those freshman Democrats, Representative Lucy McBath of Georgia. “I am not paying attention to the rhetoric of the N.R.A. because I can’t be distracted. What’s most important is putting forth good legislation to save as many lives as we can.” Ms. McBath’s son, Jordan Davis, was shot to death in 2012.Roughly half of all female homicide victims are killed by what experts call “intimate partners” — meaning current or former spouses or dating partners — according to a 2017 study by the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. And about half of intimate partner homicides involved dating relationships, according to Mr. Keck.The “boyfriend loophole” provision is “a refocus on should we be just looking at domestic partners or should we be looking more broadly at intimate partners?” he said.Studies also show that domestic abusers with guns inflict a disproportionate amount of violence on their partners, and that the victims are overwhelmingly female. Abused women are five times more likely to be killed by their abuser if the abuser owns a firearm, according to the Giffords Law Center to Prevent Gun Violence, a gun safety group. Roughly three-quarters of all intimate partner murder victims were also victims of stalking by their partners, according to the National Center for Victims of Crime.“The share of homicides committed by dating partners has been increasing for three decades,” said Shannon Watts, who founded Moms Demand Action for Gun Sense in America, a group that supports tighter gun laws, in response to the massacre at Sandy Hook Elementary School in Connecticut in 2012. “Women are now as likely to be killed by dating partners as by spouses with guns.”The reauthorization bill has one Republican co-sponsor, Representative Brian Fitzpatrick of Pennsylvania. Representative Kevin McCarthy, the House Republican leader, is urging Congress to extend the expired law for the rest of the year to continue funding services to survivors at current levels. Ms. Baker, of the N.R.A., accused Democrats of “playing politics” with the bill by inserting the so-called boyfriend provision as a “poison pill” so that Democrats can portray Republicans who vote against it as anti-woman.The N.R.A. has decided to “score” the vote on the Violence Against Women Act, meaning it will keep track and publish how lawmakers vote in an effort to either reward or defeat them in the next election. While the move is not likely to keep the bill from passing the House, it does make it more likely that the “boyfriend loophole” provision will be stripped from the act when the measure arrives in the Senate.“Anybody who votes for this should take the outrage of the N.R.A. and wear it proudly,” said Representative Debbie Dingell, Democrat of Michigan, who drafted the provision as a separate bill and fought for it to be included in the Violence Against Women Act.Ms. Dingell — whose husband, John D. Dingell Jr., who died this year, served on the N.R.A.’s board of directors — has spoken powerfully of her experiences as a child, cowering in the closet in fear of her father, who struggled with mental illness and had a gun.“I am not someone who wants to take people’s guns away,” she said. “I have lived with a man that was an N.R.A. board member and with a man that shouldn’t have had a gun. And I want to stand up for both sides.”The move to oppose the act comes as the N.R.A.’s power is increasingly being challenged on Capitol Hill and in statehouses around the country by gun control activists, including many students who have taken up the charge after the massacre last year at Marjory Stoneman Douglas High School in Parkland, Fla.Twenty-six states and the District of Columbia passed 67 new gun safety laws in 2018, according to the Giffords Law Center to Prevent Gun Violence. On Capitol Hill, the House in February passed legislation expanding background checks to cover nearly all gun purchases — the first significant gun safety measure in 25 years.Even in the Republican-controlled Senate, Senator Lindsey Graham, chairman of the Senate Judiciary Committee, convened a hearing last week on “red flag laws” or extreme risk protection orders that allow family members and law enforcement officers to obtain court restraining orders to remove firearms from people who have been identified as a risk to themselves or others.So far, 14 states and the District of Columbia have laws allowing extreme risk protection orders. Mr. Graham said he is working on legislation to create incentives for states to enact such bills. Ms. Baker said the N.R.A. agrees with the idea in theory but has not supported any of the state laws because of “serious due process concerns.”The idea has gained traction in some unlikely places — including the White House, where President Trump embraced it when Vice President Mike Pence raised it during a meeting with lawmakers after the school massacre in Parkland.“Or Mike, take the firearms first and then go to court,” Mr. Trump told Mr. Pence, adding, “because a lot of times, by the time you go to court, it takes so long to go to court to get the due process procedures. I like taking the guns early.”AdvertisementSupported byBy Kate TaylorPeople on opposite sides of the debate about guns apparently can’t agree on anything these days — not even the meaning of a string of pearls.On Tuesday, liberal activists expressed outrage at a group of male New Hampshire legislators who wore pearl necklaces at a committee hearing. Shannon Watts, the founder of a gun control group, Moms Demand Action for Gun Sense in America, posted an image of the lawmakers, all Republicans, on Twitter and accused them of mocking her group’s volunteers and others who were testifying.Male New Hampshire lawmakers on the hearing committee wearing pearls to mock @MomsDemand volunteers and gun safety advocates. #NHPolitics pic.twitter.com/rc1S3Bj9lGThe intended message of the pearls wasn’t entirely clear, though one interpretation was that the lawmakers were trying to paint members of the group as “pearl clutchers” — suggesting that they were being overly sensitive. People responding to the tweet attacked the men pictured, calling them bullies and their behavior malicious and cruel.Two Democratic presidential hopefuls, Senators Cory Booker and Kamala Harris, weighed in on Twitter in support of Moms Demand Action, which is an arm of Everytown For Gun Safety, the gun control group financed by Michael Bloomberg. “These moms are fighting to confront gun violence and protect our children,” Ms. Harris said. “They don’t deserve to be mocked.”But a different narrative soon emerged: Kimberly Morin, the president of a gun rights group that also attended the hearing, told The New Hampshire Union Leader that her group had distributed the pearls. The hearing was over a proposed “red flag” bill, which would allow courts to temporarily take away guns from people found to be an immediate risk to themselves or others.In an interview on Wednesday, Ms. Morin said the pearls were not meant to mock anyone, but had for years been a symbol for her group, the Women’s Defense League of New Hampshire, which offers firearms training to women as well as advocating gun rights.“She’s lying,” Ms. Morin said of Ms. Watts, the founder of Moms Demand Action. “That’s my comment — she’s lying.”For her part, Ms. Watts said Ms. Morin’s group was backing away from the necklaces’ original intent. “It started out meant to mock Moms Demand Action volunteers,” she insisted.Ms. Morin traced the origin of the symbolic pearls to 2015. After a hearing that year on a bill to allow people to carry concealed guns without a permit, an anonymous Moms Demand Action volunteer was quoted as saying that many potential opponents of the bill didn’t testify because they were intimidated, Ms. Morin said.“People really don’t like to come and stand in front of a ‘firing squad’ — a group of people with guns,” the volunteer told WMUR, a local television station.Ms. Morin said her group found the statement absurd. That day, some in her group were dressed in business suits — and as it happened, pearls — hardly the attire of a “firing squad.” It was that sequence of events that led the group to make pearls their signature, she said. (The bill was ultimately signed by Gov. Chris Sununu in 2017 at a ceremony rife with pearl necklaces.)New Hampshire has among the least restrictive gun laws in the country, and support for gun rights is strong. Democrats took control of both chambers of the legislature in November and are now pushing a package of bills aimed at setting limits on guns, including bills requiring background checks for commercial gun purchases, creating a waiting period between the purchase and delivery of a gun, and allowing school districts to create gun-free zones.The bills face considerable odds, given that Mr. Sununu, a Republican, has expressed opposition to any changes to the state’s gun laws, a position his spokesman reiterated on Wednesday.AdvertisementSupported byBy Emily CochraneWASHINGTON — The House on Thursday rebuffed a furious lobbying campaign by the National Rifle Association and approved a revamped Violence Against Women Act that would expand law enforcement’s ability to restrict gun purchases by convicted domestic abusers.The legislation passed easily, 263 to 158, but the divided vote came on what was once a broadly bipartisan measure first passed in 1994. In recent years, partisan rancor over efforts to expand the protections of the legislation have clouded efforts to renew it, and this year, the divide was over gun control.The provisions would close the so-called boyfriend loophole and bar those under a restraining order or who were convicted of abusing, assaulting or stalking a domestic partner from buying guns. The N.R.A. seized on the new measures and warned Congress that it would track and publish how lawmakers voted, hoping to intimidate Republicans and Democrats in Republican-leaning districts.“Do not let the N.R.A. bully you,” Representative Debbie Dingell, Democrat of Michigan, urged her colleagues before the vote, noting that her recently deceased husband, former Representative John Dingell Jr., also a Democrat, was a member of the organization.Thirty-three Republicans bucked the threat and voted with the Democratic majority in favor of the legislation — among them, Representative Brian Fitzpatrick of Pennsylvania, the sole Republican sponsor of the reauthorization. Representative Jeff Fortenberry, Republican of Nebraska, voted present.Democrats, including all of the freshman members who won in districts swept by Donald J. Trump in 2016, stood up to the gun lobby, with only one — Representative Collin C. Peterson of Minnesota — voting no.Many in the new majority campaigned on tightening access to guns, and they appeared to embrace condemnation from the gun lobby as a badge of honor.“Lawmakers should be reading the tea leaves,” said Shannon Watts, the founder of Moms Demand Action for Gun Sense in America, a group that supports restricting gun laws. “In the midterm elections, it was gun safety that got people to the polls.”Other supporters of the legislation argued that the gun provisions made up only a fraction of the protections offered by the bill, and included invaluable resources for survivors.“This wasn’t a gun bill — this is a bill to protect women,” said Lisette Johnson, a member of the Everytown Survivor Network and a survivor of domestic abuse. “This passing today is really a huge support for women and keeping them safer.”Republicans had advocated a clean one-year extension of the current law, which expired in February, arguing that new elements of the legislation were controversial and overreached — in particular, the gun restrictions and language offering additional protections to transgender people.“Can we stop playing political games at the expense of vulnerable women?” asked Representative Elise Stefanik, Republican of New York, before the vote, arguing that the bill put forward by Democrats would “collect dust in the Senate.” (Democrats, who booed vigorously during her speech, rejected her motion.)The vote highlighted the stark contrasts between the new Democratic majority, with its historic number of women, and the Republican minority, which has struggled to attract female voters and to increase the number of conservative women holding office on Capitol Hill. Democrats framed opposition to the legislation’s renewal as a denial of protections for survivors of abuse, efforts to prevent domestic violence and support for law enforcement.Representative Sharice Davids, Democrat of Kansas and one of the first two Native American women elected to Congress in November, presided over the final vote on the measure, which contains a number of protections for women on tribal lands — including a new provision that would allow tribal courts to prosecute nonnative people accused of domestic crimes or dating violence on tribal lands.A number of Democrats, including Ms. Dingell and Representative Katie Porter of California, offered passionate defenses of the legislation, repeatedly drawing on their own experiences as survivors of domestic abuse.“I know that fear, I know that terror and I just want to try to save another family from going through that terror,” Ms. Dingell said at a news conference on Wednesday, recalling being afraid as a child that her father, who had mental illness and owned a gun, would harm her mother or her siblings. “Why would you not close that loophole?”Republicans, beyond objecting to what they said was an infringement on gun ownership, argued that the measure contained other proposals that were too broad for a law intended to protect survivors of assault. In previous hearings and speeches, they had singled out provisions that would expand protections for transgender people and require the Bureau of Prisons to consider the safety and protection of transgender prisoners when giving housing assignments.“We find ourselves debating a VAWA reauthorization act that is literally a Christmas tree of progressive liberal policy objectives, rather than an honest approach to reforming and updating such an important law,” said Representative Debbie Lesko, Republican of Arizona, who is a survivor of domestic abuse.The legislation heads to the Senate, where Senators Dianne Feinstein, Democrat of California, and Joni Ernst, Republican of Iowa, have said they will lead efforts to pass a version. It is unclear how many of the new gun provisions in the House legislation will prevail in the Republican-controlled Senate.“There are a number of improvements in the House bill that I think should be in our version, including preserving improvements already made in the 2013 reauthorization,” Ms. Feinstein said in a statement after the vote. “I hope the Senate will move quickly. This is an important law and one the Senate should take very seriously and act upon expeditiously.”AdvertisementSupported byBy Sheryl Gay StolbergWASHINGTON — The National Rifle Association, the nation’s largest gun lobby, has settled on its next target on Capitol Hill: blocking Congress from reauthorizing the Violence Against Women Act, a 1994 law that assists victims of domestic and sexual violence.The House is set to vote on the legislation this week; the law expired in February. But the bill includes a new provision — aimed at curbing sexual violence by expanding law enforcement’s ability to strip domestic abusers of their guns — that the N.R.A. does not like. The measure closes the so-called boyfriend loophole by barring those convicted of abusing, assaulting or stalking a dating partner or those subject to a court restraining order from buying or owning firearms.Under current federal law, those convicted of domestic abuse can lose their guns if they are — or were formerly — married to their victim, live with their victim, have a child with their victim or are a parent or guardian of their victim. The proposed provision would extend those who can be convicted of domestic abuse to include stalkers and current or former boyfriends or dating partners.Jennifer Baker, a spokeswoman for the N.R.A., said that for “many of those ‘offenses’ — and I’m using air quotes here — the behavior that would qualify as a stalking offense is often not violent or threatening; it involves no personal contact whatsoever.” She argues that the new provision is “too broad and ripe for abuse.”“Like if you were sending harassing messages to somebody on Facebook, to somebody you never met or somebody you dated five years ago,” she said, adding, “How it’s written right now, you could be convicted for a misdemeanor stalking offense for a tweet that causes someone emotional distress and then you would be prohibited from owning a firearm.”Others find the N.R.A.’s argument far-fetched. “A single tweet or Facebook message, without significant other conduct, would ordinarily not be enough” to result in a conviction for stalking, said David Keck, director of the National Resource Center on Domestic Violence and Firearms, which provides guidance to law enforcement and governments on implementing firearms prohibitions, but takes no position on the new domestic violence act provision.And times have changed for the gun lobby. A wave of freshman Democrats in Congress were elected on a promise to enact new gun restrictions, and they proudly campaigned against the N.R.A.“The No. 1 way that women are being killed with guns is by their beloveds, their boyfriends, their significant others,” said one of those freshman Democrats, Representative Lucy McBath of Georgia. “I am not paying attention to the rhetoric of the N.R.A. because I can’t be distracted. What’s most important is putting forth good legislation to save as many lives as we can.” Ms. McBath’s son, Jordan Davis, was shot to death in 2012.Roughly half of all female homicide victims are killed by what experts call “intimate partners” — meaning current or former spouses or dating partners — according to a 2017 study by the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. And about half of intimate partner homicides involved dating relationships, according to Mr. Keck.The “boyfriend loophole” provision is “a refocus on should we be just looking at domestic partners or should we be looking more broadly at intimate partners?” he said.Studies also show that domestic abusers with guns inflict a disproportionate amount of violence on their partners, and that the victims are overwhelmingly female. Abused women are five times more likely to be killed by their abuser if the abuser owns a firearm, according to the Giffords Law Center to Prevent Gun Violence, a gun safety group. Roughly three-quarters of all intimate partner murder victims were also victims of stalking by their partners, according to the National Center for Victims of Crime.“The share of homicides committed by dating partners has been increasing for three decades,” said Shannon Watts, who founded Moms Demand Action for Gun Sense in America, a group that supports tighter gun laws, in response to the massacre at Sandy Hook Elementary School in Connecticut in 2012. “Women are now as likely to be killed by dating partners as by spouses with guns.”The reauthorization bill has one Republican co-sponsor, Representative Brian Fitzpatrick of Pennsylvania. Representative Kevin McCarthy, the House Republican leader, is urging Congress to extend the expired law for the rest of the year to continue funding services to survivors at current levels. Ms. Baker, of the N.R.A., accused Democrats of “playing politics” with the bill by inserting the so-called boyfriend provision as a “poison pill” so that Democrats can portray Republicans who vote against it as anti-woman.The N.R.A. has decided to “score” the vote on the Violence Against Women Act, meaning it will keep track and publish how lawmakers vote in an effort to either reward or defeat them in the next election. While the move is not likely to keep the bill from passing the House, it does make it more likely that the “boyfriend loophole” provision will be stripped from the act when the measure arrives in the Senate.“Anybody who votes for this should take the outrage of the N.R.A. and wear it proudly,” said Representative Debbie Dingell, Democrat of Michigan, who drafted the provision as a separate bill and fought for it to be included in the Violence Against Women Act.Ms. Dingell — whose husband, John D. Dingell Jr., who died this year, served on the N.R.A.’s board of directors — has spoken powerfully of her experiences as a child, cowering in the closet in fear of her father, who struggled with mental illness and had a gun.“I am not someone who wants to take people’s guns away,” she said. “I have lived with a man that was an N.R.A. board member and with a man that shouldn’t have had a gun. And I want to stand up for both sides.”The move to oppose the act comes as the N.R.A.’s power is increasingly being challenged on Capitol Hill and in statehouses around the country by gun control activists, including many students who have taken up the charge after the massacre last year at Marjory Stoneman Douglas High School in Parkland, Fla.Twenty-six states and the District of Columbia passed 67 new gun safety laws in 2018, according to the Giffords Law Center to Prevent Gun Violence. On Capitol Hill, the House in February passed legislation expanding background checks to cover nearly all gun purchases — the first significant gun safety measure in 25 years.Even in the Republican-controlled Senate, Senator Lindsey Graham, chairman of the Senate Judiciary Committee, convened a hearing last week on “red flag laws” or extreme risk protection orders that allow family members and law enforcement officers to obtain court restraining orders to remove firearms from people who have been identified as a risk to themselves or others.So far, 14 states and the District of Columbia have laws allowing extreme risk protection orders. Mr. Graham said he is working on legislation to create incentives for states to enact such bills. Ms. Baker said the N.R.A. agrees with the idea in theory but has not supported any of the state laws because of “serious due process concerns.”The idea has gained traction in some unlikely places — including the White House, where President Trump embraced it when Vice President Mike Pence raised it during a meeting with lawmakers after the school massacre in Parkland.“Or Mike, take the firearms first and then go to court,” Mr. Trump told Mr. Pence, adding, “because a lot of times, by the time you go to court, it takes so long to go to court to get the due process procedures. I like taking the guns early.”AdvertisementSupported byBy Kate TaylorPeople on opposite sides of the debate about guns apparently can’t agree on anything these days — not even the meaning of a string of pearls.On Tuesday, liberal activists expressed outrage at a group of male New Hampshire legislators who wore pearl necklaces at a committee hearing. Shannon Watts, the founder of a gun control group, Moms Demand Action for Gun Sense in America, posted an image of the lawmakers, all Republicans, on Twitter and accused them of mocking her group’s volunteers and others who were testifying.Male New Hampshire lawmakers on the hearing committee wearing pearls to mock @MomsDemand volunteers and gun safety advocates. #NHPolitics pic.twitter.com/rc1S3Bj9lGThe intended message of the pearls wasn’t entirely clear, though one interpretation was that the lawmakers were trying to paint members of the group as “pearl clutchers” — suggesting that they were being overly sensitive. People responding to the tweet attacked the men pictured, calling them bullies and their behavior malicious and cruel.Two Democratic presidential hopefuls, Senators Cory Booker and Kamala Harris, weighed in on Twitter in support of Moms Demand Action, which is an arm of Everytown For Gun Safety, the gun control group financed by Michael Bloomberg. “These moms are fighting to confront gun violence and protect our children,” Ms. Harris said. “They don’t deserve to be mocked.”But a different narrative soon emerged: Kimberly Morin, the president of a gun rights group that also attended the hearing, told The New Hampshire Union Leader that her group had distributed the pearls. The hearing was over a proposed “red flag” bill, which would allow courts to temporarily take away guns from people found to be an immediate risk to themselves or others.In an interview on Wednesday, Ms. Morin said the pearls were not meant to mock anyone, but had for years been a symbol for her group, the Women’s Defense League of New Hampshire, which offers firearms training to women as well as advocating gun rights.“She’s lying,” Ms. Morin said of Ms. Watts, the founder of Moms Demand Action. “That’s my comment — she’s lying.”For her part, Ms. Watts said Ms. Morin’s group was backing away from the necklaces’ original intent. “It started out meant to mock Moms Demand Action volunteers,” she insisted.Ms. Morin traced the origin of the symbolic pearls to 2015. After a hearing that year on a bill to allow people to carry concealed guns without a permit, an anonymous Moms Demand Action volunteer was quoted as saying that many potential opponents of the bill didn’t testify because they were intimidated, Ms. Morin said.“People really don’t like to come and stand in front of a ‘firing squad’ — a group of people with guns,” the volunteer told WMUR, a local television station.Ms. Morin said her group found the statement absurd. That day, some in her group were dressed in business suits — and as it happened, pearls — hardly the attire of a “firing squad.” It was that sequence of events that led the group to make pearls their signature, she said. (The bill was ultimately signed by Gov. Chris Sununu in 2017 at a ceremony rife with pearl necklaces.)New Hampshire has among the least restrictive gun laws in the country, and support for gun rights is strong. Democrats took control of both chambers of the legislature in November and are now pushing a package of bills aimed at setting limits on guns, including bills requiring background checks for commercial gun purchases, creating a waiting period between the purchase and delivery of a gun, and allowing school districts to create gun-free zones.The bills face considerable odds, given that Mr. Sununu, a Republican, has expressed opposition to any changes to the state’s gun laws, a position his spokesman reiterated on Wednesday.AdvertisementSupported byBy Emily CochraneWASHINGTON — The House on Thursday rebuffed a furious lobbying campaign by the National Rifle Association and approved a revamped Violence Against Women Act that would expand law enforcement’s ability to restrict gun purchases by convicted domestic abusers.The legislation passed easily, 263 to 158, but the divided vote came on what was once a broadly bipartisan measure first passed in 1994. In recent years, partisan rancor over efforts to expand the protections of the legislation have clouded efforts to renew it, and this year, the divide was over gun control.The provisions would close the so-called boyfriend loophole and bar those under a restraining order or who were convicted of abusing, assaulting or stalking a domestic partner from buying guns. The N.R.A. seized on the new measures and warned Congress that it would track and publish how lawmakers voted, hoping to intimidate Republicans and Democrats in Republican-leaning districts.“Do not let the N.R.A. bully you,” Representative Debbie Dingell, Democrat of Michigan, urged her colleagues before the vote, noting that her recently deceased husband, former Representative John Dingell Jr., also a Democrat, was a member of the organization.Thirty-three Republicans bucked the threat and voted with the Democratic majority in favor of the legislation — among them, Representative Brian Fitzpatrick of Pennsylvania, the sole Republican sponsor of the reauthorization. Representative Jeff Fortenberry, Republican of Nebraska, voted present.Democrats, including all of the freshman members who won in districts swept by Donald J. Trump in 2016, stood up to the gun lobby, with only one — Representative Collin C. Peterson of Minnesota — voting no.Many in the new majority campaigned on tightening access to guns, and they appeared to embrace condemnation from the gun lobby as a badge of honor.“Lawmakers should be reading the tea leaves,” said Shannon Watts, the founder of Moms Demand Action for Gun Sense in America, a group that supports restricting gun laws. “In the midterm elections, it was gun safety that got people to the polls.”Other supporters of the legislation argued that the gun provisions made up only a fraction of the protections offered by the bill, and included invaluable resources for survivors.“This wasn’t a gun bill — this is a bill to protect women,” said Lisette Johnson, a member of the Everytown Survivor Network and a survivor of domestic abuse. “This passing today is really a huge support for women and keeping them safer.”Republicans had advocated a clean one-year extension of the current law, which expired in February, arguing that new elements of the legislation were controversial and overreached — in particular, the gun restrictions and language offering additional protections to transgender people.“Can we stop playing political games at the expense of vulnerable women?” asked Representative Elise Stefanik, Republican of New York, before the vote, arguing that the bill put forward by Democrats would “collect dust in the Senate.” (Democrats, who booed vigorously during her speech, rejected her motion.)The vote highlighted the stark contrasts between the new Democratic majority, with its historic number of women, and the Republican minority, which has struggled to attract female voters and to increase the number of conservative women holding office on Capitol Hill. Democrats framed opposition to the legislation’s renewal as a denial of protections for survivors of abuse, efforts to prevent domestic violence and support for law enforcement.Representative Sharice Davids, Democrat of Kansas and one of the first two Native American women elected to Congress in November, presided over the final vote on the measure, which contains a number of protections for women on tribal lands — including a new provision that would allow tribal courts to prosecute nonnative people accused of domestic crimes or dating violence on tribal lands.A number of Democrats, including Ms. Dingell and Representative Katie Porter of California, offered passionate defenses of the legislation, repeatedly drawing on their own experiences as survivors of domestic abuse.“I know that fear, I know that terror and I just want to try to save another family from going through that terror,” Ms. Dingell said at a news conference on Wednesday, recalling being afraid as a child that her father, who had mental illness and owned a gun, would harm her mother or her siblings. “Why would you not close that loophole?”Republicans, beyond objecting to what they said was an infringement on gun ownership, argued that the measure contained other proposals that were too broad for a law intended to protect survivors of assault. In previous hearings and speeches, they had singled out provisions that would expand protections for transgender people and require the Bureau of Prisons to consider the safety and protection of transgender prisoners when giving housing assignments.“We find ourselves debating a VAWA reauthorization act that is literally a Christmas tree of progressive liberal policy objectives, rather than an honest approach to reforming and updating such an important law,” said Representative Debbie Lesko, Republican of Arizona, who is a survivor of domestic abuse.The legislation heads to the Senate, where Senators Dianne Feinstein, Democrat of California, and Joni Ernst, Republican of Iowa, have said they will lead efforts to pass a version. It is unclear how many of the new gun provisions in the House legislation will prevail in the Republican-controlled Senate.“There are a number of improvements in the House bill that I think should be in our version, including preserving improvements already made in the 2013 reauthorization,” Ms. Feinstein said in a statement after the vote. “I hope the Senate will move quickly. This is an important law and one the Senate should take very seriously and act upon expeditiously.”AdvertisementSupported byBy Sheryl Gay StolbergWASHINGTON — The National Rifle Association, the nation’s largest gun lobby, has settled on its next target on Capitol Hill: blocking Congress from reauthorizing the Violence Against Women Act, a 1994 law that assists victims of domestic and sexual violence.The House is set to vote on the legislation this week; the law expired in February. But the bill includes a new provision — aimed at curbing sexual violence by expanding law enforcement’s ability to strip domestic abusers of their guns — that the N.R.A. does not like. The measure closes the so-called boyfriend loophole by barring those convicted of abusing, assaulting or stalking a dating partner or those subject to a court restraining order from buying or owning firearms.Under current federal law, those convicted of domestic abuse can lose their guns if they are — or were formerly — married to their victim, live with their victim, have a child with their victim or are a parent or guardian of their victim. The proposed provision would extend those who can be convicted of domestic abuse to include stalkers and current or former boyfriends or dating partners.Jennifer Baker, a spokeswoman for the N.R.A., said that for “many of those ‘offenses’ — and I’m using air quotes here — the behavior that would qualify as a stalking offense is often not violent or threatening; it involves no personal contact whatsoever.” She argues that the new provision is “too broad and ripe for abuse.”“Like if you were sending harassing messages to somebody on Facebook, to somebody you never met or somebody you dated five years ago,” she said, adding, “How it’s written right now, you could be convicted for a misdemeanor stalking offense for a tweet that causes someone emotional distress and then you would be prohibited from owning a firearm.”Others find the N.R.A.’s argument far-fetched. “A single tweet or Facebook message, without significant other conduct, would ordinarily not be enough” to result in a conviction for stalking, said David Keck, director of the National Resource Center on Domestic Violence and Firearms, which provides guidance to law enforcement and governments on implementing firearms prohibitions, but takes no position on the new domestic violence act provision.And times have changed for the gun lobby. A wave of freshman Democrats in Congress were elected on a promise to enact new gun restrictions, and they proudly campaigned against the N.R.A.“The No. 1 way that women are being killed with guns is by their beloveds, their boyfriends, their significant others,” said one of those freshman Democrats, Representative Lucy McBath of Georgia. “I am not paying attention to the rhetoric of the N.R.A. because I can’t be distracted. What’s most important is putting forth good legislation to save as many lives as we can.” Ms. McBath’s son, Jordan Davis, was shot to death in 2012.Roughly half of all female homicide victims are killed by what experts call “intimate partners” — meaning current or former spouses or dating partners — according to a 2017 study by the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. And about half of intimate partner homicides involved dating relationships, according to Mr. Keck.The “boyfriend loophole” provision is “a refocus on should we be just looking at domestic partners or should we be looking more broadly at intimate partners?” he said.Studies also show that domestic abusers with guns inflict a disproportionate amount of violence on their partners, and that the victims are overwhelmingly female. Abused women are five times more likely to be killed by their abuser if the abuser owns a firearm, according to the Giffords Law Center to Prevent Gun Violence, a gun safety group. Roughly three-quarters of all intimate partner murder victims were also victims of stalking by their partners, according to the National Center for Victims of Crime.“The share of homicides committed by dating partners has been increasing for three decades,” said Shannon Watts, who founded Moms Demand Action for Gun Sense in America, a group that supports tighter gun laws, in response to the massacre at Sandy Hook Elementary School in Connecticut in 2012. “Women are now as likely to be killed by dating partners as by spouses with guns.”The reauthorization bill has one Republican co-sponsor, Representative Brian Fitzpatrick of Pennsylvania. Representative Kevin McCarthy, the House Republican leader, is urging Congress to extend the expired law for the rest of the year to continue funding services to survivors at current levels. Ms. Baker, of the N.R.A., accused Democrats of “playing politics” with the bill by inserting the so-called boyfriend provision as a “poison pill” so that Democrats can portray Republicans who vote against it as anti-woman.The N.R.A. has decided to “score” the vote on the Violence Against Women Act, meaning it will keep track and publish how lawmakers vote in an effort to either reward or defeat them in the next election. While the move is not likely to keep the bill from passing the House, it does make it more likely that the “boyfriend loophole” provision will be stripped from the act when the measure arrives in the Senate.“Anybody who votes for this should take the outrage of the N.R.A. and wear it proudly,” said Representative Debbie Dingell, Democrat of Michigan, who drafted the provision as a separate bill and fought for it to be included in the Violence Against Women Act.Ms. Dingell — whose husband, John D. Dingell Jr., who died this year, served on the N.R.A.’s board of directors — has spoken powerfully of her experiences as a child, cowering in the closet in fear of her father, who struggled with mental illness and had a gun.“I am not someone who wants to take people’s guns away,” she said. “I have lived with a man that was an N.R.A. board member and with a man that shouldn’t have had a gun. And I want to stand up for both sides.”The move to oppose the act comes as the N.R.A.’s power is increasingly being challenged on Capitol Hill and in statehouses around the country by gun control activists, including many students who have taken up the charge after the massacre last year at Marjory Stoneman Douglas High School in Parkland, Fla.Twenty-six states and the District of Columbia passed 67 new gun safety laws in 2018, according to the Giffords Law Center to Prevent Gun Violence. On Capitol Hill, the House in February passed legislation expanding background checks to cover nearly all gun purchases — the first significant gun safety measure in 25 years.Even in the Republican-controlled Senate, Senator Lindsey Graham, chairman of the Senate Judiciary Committee, convened a hearing last week on “red flag laws” or extreme risk protection orders that allow family members and law enforcement officers to obtain court restraining orders to remove firearms from people who have been identified as a risk to themselves or others.So far, 14 states and the District of Columbia have laws allowing extreme risk protection orders. Mr. Graham said he is working on legislation to create incentives for states to enact such bills. Ms. Baker said the N.R.A. agrees with the idea in theory but has not supported any of the state laws because of “serious due process concerns.”The idea has gained traction in some unlikely places — including the White House, where President Trump embraced it when Vice President Mike Pence raised it during a meeting with lawmakers after the school massacre in Parkland.“Or Mike, take the firearms first and then go to court,” Mr. Trump told Mr. Pence, adding, “because a lot of times, by the time you go to court, it takes so long to go to court to get the due process procedures. I like taking the guns early.”AdvertisementSupported byBy Kate TaylorPeople on opposite sides of the debate about guns apparently can’t agree on anything these days — not even the meaning of a string of pearls.On Tuesday, liberal activists expressed outrage at a group of male New Hampshire legislators who wore pearl necklaces at a committee hearing. Shannon Watts, the founder of a gun control group, Moms Demand Action for Gun Sense in America, posted an image of the lawmakers, all Republicans, on Twitter and accused them of mocking her group’s volunteers and others who were testifying.Male New Hampshire lawmakers on the hearing committee wearing pearls to mock @MomsDemand volunteers and gun safety advocates. #NHPolitics pic.twitter.com/rc1S3Bj9lGThe intended message of the pearls wasn’t entirely clear, though one interpretation was that the lawmakers were trying to paint members of the group as “pearl clutchers” — suggesting that they were being overly sensitive. People responding to the tweet attacked the men pictured, calling them bullies and their behavior malicious and cruel.Two Democratic presidential hopefuls, Senators Cory Booker and Kamala Harris, weighed in on Twitter in support of Moms Demand Action, which is an arm of Everytown For Gun Safety, the gun control group financed by Michael Bloomberg. “These moms are fighting to confront gun violence and protect our children,” Ms. Harris said. “They don’t deserve to be mocked.”But a different narrative soon emerged: Kimberly Morin, the president of a gun rights group that also attended the hearing, told The New Hampshire Union Leader that her group had distributed the pearls. The hearing was over a proposed “red flag” bill, which would allow courts to temporarily take away guns from people found to be an immediate risk to themselves or others.In an interview on Wednesday, Ms. Morin said the pearls were not meant to mock anyone, but had for years been a symbol for her group, the Women’s Defense League of New Hampshire, which offers firearms training to women as well as advocating gun rights.“She’s lying,” Ms. Morin said of Ms. Watts, the founder of Moms Demand Action. “That’s my comment — she’s lying.”For her part, Ms. Watts said Ms. Morin’s group was backing away from the necklaces’ original intent. “It started out meant to mock Moms Demand Action volunteers,” she insisted.Ms. Morin traced the origin of the symbolic pearls to 2015. After a hearing that year on a bill to allow people to carry concealed guns without a permit, an anonymous Moms Demand Action volunteer was quoted as saying that many potential opponents of the bill didn’t testify because they were intimidated, Ms. Morin said.“People really don’t like to come and stand in front of a ‘firing squad’ — a group of people with guns,” the volunteer told WMUR, a local television station.Ms. Morin said her group found the statement absurd. That day, some in her group were dressed in business suits — and as it happened, pearls — hardly the attire of a “firing squad.” It was that sequence of events that led the group to make pearls their signature, she said. (The bill was ultimately signed by Gov. Chris Sununu in 2017 at a ceremony rife with pearl necklaces.)New Hampshire has among the least restrictive gun laws in the country, and support for gun rights is strong. Democrats took control of both chambers of the legislature in November and are now pushing a package of bills aimed at setting limits on guns, including bills requiring background checks for commercial gun purchases, creating a waiting period between the purchase and delivery of a gun, and allowing school districts to create gun-free zones.The bills face considerable odds, given that Mr. Sununu, a Republican, has expressed opposition to any changes to the state’s gun laws, a position his spokesman reiterated on Wednesday.AdvertisementSupported byBy Emily CochraneWASHINGTON — The House on Thursday rebuffed a furious lobbying campaign by the National Rifle Association and approved a revamped Violence Against Women Act that would expand law enforcement’s ability to restrict gun purchases by convicted domestic abusers.The legislation passed easily, 263 to 158, but the divided vote came on what was once a broadly bipartisan measure first passed in 1994. In recent years, partisan rancor over efforts to expand the protections of the legislation have clouded efforts to renew it, and this year, the divide was over gun control.The provisions would close the so-called boyfriend loophole and bar those under a restraining order or who were convicted of abusing, assaulting or stalking a domestic partner from buying guns. The N.R.A. seized on the new measures and warned Congress that it would track and publish how lawmakers voted, hoping to intimidate Republicans and Democrats in Republican-leaning districts.“Do not let the N.R.A. bully you,” Representative Debbie Dingell, Democrat of Michigan, urged her colleagues before the vote, noting that her recently deceased husband, former Representative John Dingell Jr., also a Democrat, was a member of the organization.Thirty-three Republicans bucked the threat and voted with the Democratic majority in favor of the legislation — among them, Representative Brian Fitzpatrick of Pennsylvania, the sole Republican sponsor of the reauthorization. Representative Jeff Fortenberry, Republican of Nebraska, voted present.Democrats, including all of the freshman members who won in districts swept by Donald J. Trump in 2016, stood up to the gun lobby, with only one — Representative Collin C. Peterson of Minnesota — voting no.Many in the new majority campaigned on tightening access to guns, and they appeared to embrace condemnation from the gun lobby as a badge of honor.“Lawmakers should be reading the tea leaves,” said Shannon Watts, the founder of Moms Demand Action for Gun Sense in America, a group that supports restricting gun laws. “In the midterm elections, it was gun safety that got people to the polls.”Other supporters of the legislation argued that the gun provisions made up only a fraction of the protections offered by the bill, and included invaluable resources for survivors.“This wasn’t a gun bill — this is a bill to protect women,” said Lisette Johnson, a member of the Everytown Survivor Network and a survivor of domestic abuse. “This passing today is really a huge support for women and keeping them safer.”Republicans had advocated a clean one-year extension of the current law, which expired in February, arguing that new elements of the legislation were controversial and overreached — in particular, the gun restrictions and language offering additional protections to transgender people.“Can we stop playing political games at the expense of vulnerable women?” asked Representative Elise Stefanik, Republican of New York, before the vote, arguing that the bill put forward by Democrats would “collect dust in the Senate.” (Democrats, who booed vigorously during her speech, rejected her motion.)The vote highlighted the stark contrasts between the new Democratic majority, with its historic number of women, and the Republican minority, which has struggled to attract female voters and to increase the number of conservative women holding office on Capitol Hill. Democrats framed opposition to the legislation’s renewal as a denial of protections for survivors of abuse, efforts to prevent domestic violence and support for law enforcement.Representative Sharice Davids, Democrat of Kansas and one of the first two Native American women elected to Congress in November, presided over the final vote on the measure, which contains a number of protections for women on tribal lands — including a new provision that would allow tribal courts to prosecute nonnative people accused of domestic crimes or dating violence on tribal lands.A number of Democrats, including Ms. Dingell and Representative Katie Porter of California, offered passionate defenses of the legislation, repeatedly drawing on their own experiences as survivors of domestic abuse.“I know that fear, I know that terror and I just want to try to save another family from going through that terror,” Ms. Dingell said at a news conference on Wednesday, recalling being afraid as a child that her father, who had mental illness and owned a gun, would harm her mother or her siblings. “Why would you not close that loophole?”Republicans, beyond objecting to what they said was an infringement on gun ownership, argued that the measure contained other proposals that were too broad for a law intended to protect survivors of assault. In previous hearings and speeches, they had singled out provisions that would expand protections for transgender people and require the Bureau of Prisons to consider the safety and protection of transgender prisoners when giving housing assignments.“We find ourselves debating a VAWA reauthorization act that is literally a Christmas tree of progressive liberal policy objectives, rather than an honest approach to reforming and updating such an important law,” said Representative Debbie Lesko, Republican of Arizona, who is a survivor of domestic abuse.The legislation heads to the Senate, where Senators Dianne Feinstein, Democrat of California, and Joni Ernst, Republican of Iowa, have said they will lead efforts to pass a version. It is unclear how many of the new gun provisions in the House legislation will prevail in the Republican-controlled Senate.“There are a number of improvements in the House bill that I think should be in our version, including preserving improvements already made in the 2013 reauthorization,” Ms. Feinstein said in a statement after the vote. “I hope the Senate will move quickly. This is an important law and one the Senate should take very seriously and act upon expeditiously.”AdvertisementSupported byBy Sheryl Gay StolbergWASHINGTON — The National Rifle Association, the nation’s largest gun lobby, has settled on its next target on Capitol Hill: blocking Congress from reauthorizing the Violence Against Women Act, a 1994 law that assists victims of domestic and sexual violence.The House is set to vote on the legislation this week; the law expired in February. But the bill includes a new provision — aimed at curbing sexual violence by expanding law enforcement’s ability to strip domestic abusers of their guns — that the N.R.A. does not like. The measure closes the so-called boyfriend loophole by barring those convicted of abusing, assaulting or stalking a dating partner or those subject to a court restraining order from buying or owning firearms.Under current federal law, those convicted of domestic abuse can lose their guns if they are — or were formerly — married to their victim, live with their victim, have a child with their victim or are a parent or guardian of their victim. The proposed provision would extend those who can be convicted of domestic abuse to include stalkers and current or former boyfriends or dating partners.Jennifer Baker, a spokeswoman for the N.R.A., said that for “many of those ‘offenses’ — and I’m using air quotes here — the behavior that would qualify as a stalking offense is often not violent or threatening; it involves no personal contact whatsoever.” She argues that the new provision is “too broad and ripe for abuse.”“Like if you were sending harassing messages to somebody on Facebook, to somebody you never met or somebody you dated five years ago,” she said, adding, “How it’s written right now, you could be convicted for a misdemeanor stalking offense for a tweet that causes someone emotional distress and then you would be prohibited from owning a firearm.”Others find the N.R.A.’s argument far-fetched. “A single tweet or Facebook message, without significant other conduct, would ordinarily not be enough” to result in a conviction for stalking, said David Keck, director of the National Resource Center on Domestic Violence and Firearms, which provides guidance to law enforcement and governments on implementing firearms prohibitions, but takes no position on the new domestic violence act provision.And times have changed for the gun lobby. A wave of freshman Democrats in Congress were elected on a promise to enact new gun restrictions, and they proudly campaigned against the N.R.A.“The No. 1 way that women are being killed with guns is by their beloveds, their boyfriends, their significant others,” said one of those freshman Democrats, Representative Lucy McBath of Georgia. “I am not paying attention to the rhetoric of the N.R.A. because I can’t be distracted. What’s most important is putting forth good legislation to save as many lives as we can.” Ms. McBath’s son, Jordan Davis, was shot to death in 2012.Roughly half of all female homicide victims are killed by what experts call “intimate partners” — meaning current or former spouses or dating partners — according to a 2017 study by the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. And about half of intimate partner homicides involved dating relationships, according to Mr. Keck.The “boyfriend loophole” provision is “a refocus on should we be just looking at domestic partners or should we be looking more broadly at intimate partners?” he said.Studies also show that domestic abusers with guns inflict a disproportionate amount of violence on their partners, and that the victims are overwhelmingly female. Abused women are five times more likely to be killed by their abuser if the abuser owns a firearm, according to the Giffords Law Center to Prevent Gun Violence, a gun safety group. Roughly three-quarters of all intimate partner murder victims were also victims of stalking by their partners, according to the National Center for Victims of Crime.“The share of homicides committed by dating partners has been increasing for three decades,” said Shannon Watts, who founded Moms Demand Action for Gun Sense in America, a group that supports tighter gun laws, in response to the massacre at Sandy Hook Elementary School in Connecticut in 2012. “Women are now as likely to be killed by dating partners as by spouses with guns.”The reauthorization bill has one Republican co-sponsor, Representative Brian Fitzpatrick of Pennsylvania. Representative Kevin McCarthy, the House Republican leader, is urging Congress to extend the expired law for the rest of the year to continue funding services to survivors at current levels. Ms. Baker, of the N.R.A., accused Democrats of “playing politics” with the bill by inserting the so-called boyfriend provision as a “poison pill” so that Democrats can portray Republicans who vote against it as anti-woman.The N.R.A. has decided to “score” the vote on the Violence Against Women Act, meaning it will keep track and publish how lawmakers vote in an effort to either reward or defeat them in the next election. While the move is not likely to keep the bill from passing the House, it does make it more likely that the “boyfriend loophole” provision will be stripped from the act when the measure arrives in the Senate.“Anybody who votes for this should take the outrage of the N.R.A. and wear it proudly,” said Representative Debbie Dingell, Democrat of Michigan, who drafted the provision as a separate bill and fought for it to be included in the Violence Against Women Act.Ms. Dingell — whose husband, John D. Dingell Jr., who died this year, served on the N.R.A.’s board of directors — has spoken powerfully of her experiences as a child, cowering in the closet in fear of her father, who struggled with mental illness and had a gun.“I am not someone who wants to take people’s guns away,” she said. “I have lived with a man that was an N.R.A. board member and with a man that shouldn’t have had a gun. And I want to stand up for both sides.”The move to oppose the act comes as the N.R.A.’s power is increasingly being challenged on Capitol Hill and in statehouses around the country by gun control activists, including many students who have taken up the charge after the massacre last year at Marjory Stoneman Douglas High School in Parkland, Fla.Twenty-six states and the District of Columbia passed 67 new gun safety laws in 2018, according to the Giffords Law Center to Prevent Gun Violence. On Capitol Hill, the House in February passed legislation expanding background checks to cover nearly all gun purchases — the first significant gun safety measure in 25 years.Even in the Republican-controlled Senate, Senator Lindsey Graham, chairman of the Senate Judiciary Committee, convened a hearing last week on “red flag laws” or extreme risk protection orders that allow family members and law enforcement officers to obtain court restraining orders to remove firearms from people who have been identified as a risk to themselves or others.So far, 14 states and the District of Columbia have laws allowing extreme risk protection orders. Mr. Graham said he is working on legislation to create incentives for states to enact such bills. Ms. Baker said the N.R.A. agrees with the idea in theory but has not supported any of the state laws because of “serious due process concerns.”The idea has gained traction in some unlikely places — including the White House, where President Trump embraced it when Vice President Mike Pence raised it during a meeting with lawmakers after the school massacre in Parkland.“Or Mike, take the firearms first and then go to court,” Mr. Trump told Mr. Pence, adding, “because a lot of times, by the time you go to court, it takes so long to go to court to get the due process procedures. I like taking the guns early.”AdvertisementSupported byBy Kate TaylorPeople on opposite sides of the debate about guns apparently can’t agree on anything these days — not even the meaning of a string of pearls.On Tuesday, liberal activists expressed outrage at a group of male New Hampshire legislators who wore pearl necklaces at a committee hearing. Shannon Watts, the founder of a gun control group, Moms Demand Action for Gun Sense in America, posted an image of the lawmakers, all Republicans, on Twitter and accused them of mocking her group’s volunteers and others who were testifying.Male New Hampshire lawmakers on the hearing committee wearing pearls to mock @MomsDemand volunteers and gun safety advocates. #NHPolitics pic.twitter.com/rc1S3Bj9lGThe intended message of the pearls wasn’t entirely clear, though one interpretation was that the lawmakers were trying to paint members of the group as “pearl clutchers” — suggesting that they were being overly sensitive. People responding to the tweet attacked the men pictured, calling them bullies and their behavior malicious and cruel.Two Democratic presidential hopefuls, Senators Cory Booker and Kamala Harris, weighed in on Twitter in support of Moms Demand Action, which is an arm of Everytown For Gun Safety, the gun control group financed by Michael Bloomberg. “These moms are fighting to confront gun violence and protect our children,” Ms. Harris said. “They don’t deserve to be mocked.”But a different narrative soon emerged: Kimberly Morin, the president of a gun rights group that also attended the hearing, told The New Hampshire Union Leader that her group had distributed the pearls. The hearing was over a proposed “red flag” bill, which would allow courts to temporarily take away guns from people found to be an immediate risk to themselves or others.In an interview on Wednesday, Ms. Morin said the pearls were not meant to mock anyone, but had for years been a symbol for her group, the Women’s Defense League of New Hampshire, which offers firearms training to women as well as advocating gun rights.“She’s lying,” Ms. Morin said of Ms. Watts, the founder of Moms Demand Action. “That’s my comment — she’s lying.”For her part, Ms. Watts said Ms. Morin’s group was backing away from the necklaces’ original intent. “It started out meant to mock Moms Demand Action volunteers,” she insisted.Ms. Morin traced the origin of the symbolic pearls to 2015. After a hearing that year on a bill to allow people to carry concealed guns without a permit, an anonymous Moms Demand Action volunteer was quoted as saying that many potential opponents of the bill didn’t testify because they were intimidated, Ms. Morin said.“People really don’t like to come and stand in front of a ‘firing squad’ — a group of people with guns,” the volunteer told WMUR, a local television station.Ms. Morin said her group found the statement absurd. That day, some in her group were dressed in business suits — and as it happened, pearls — hardly the attire of a “firing squad.” It was that sequence of events that led the group to make pearls their signature, she said. (The bill was ultimately signed by Gov. Chris Sununu in 2017 at a ceremony rife with pearl necklaces.)New Hampshire has among the least restrictive gun laws in the country, and support for gun rights is strong. Democrats took control of both chambers of the legislature in November and are now pushing a package of bills aimed at setting limits on guns, including bills requiring background checks for commercial gun purchases, creating a waiting period between the purchase and delivery of a gun, and allowing school districts to create gun-free zones.The bills face considerable odds, given that Mr. Sununu, a Republican, has expressed opposition to any changes to the state’s gun laws, a position his spokesman reiterated on Wednesday.AdvertisementSupported byBy Emily CochraneWASHINGTON — The House on Thursday rebuffed a furious lobbying campaign by the National Rifle Association and approved a revamped Violence Against Women Act that would expand law enforcement’s ability to restrict gun purchases by convicted domestic abusers.The legislation passed easily, 263 to 158, but the divided vote came on what was once a broadly bipartisan measure first passed in 1994. In recent years, partisan rancor over efforts to expand the protections of the legislation have clouded efforts to renew it, and this year, the divide was over gun control.The provisions would close the so-called boyfriend loophole and bar those under a restraining order or who were convicted of abusing, assaulting or stalking a domestic partner from buying guns. The N.R.A. seized on the new measures and warned Congress that it would track and publish how lawmakers voted, hoping to intimidate Republicans and Democrats in Republican-leaning districts.“Do not let the N.R.A. bully you,” Representative Debbie Dingell, Democrat of Michigan, urged her colleagues before the vote, noting that her recently deceased husband, former Representative John Dingell Jr., also a Democrat, was a member of the organization.Thirty-three Republicans bucked the threat and voted with the Democratic majority in favor of the legislation — among them, Representative Brian Fitzpatrick of Pennsylvania, the sole Republican sponsor of the reauthorization. Representative Jeff Fortenberry, Republican of Nebraska, voted present.Democrats, including all of the freshman members who won in districts swept by Donald J. Trump in 2016, stood up to the gun lobby, with only one — Representative Collin C. Peterson of Minnesota — voting no.Many in the new majority campaigned on tightening access to guns, and they appeared to embrace condemnation from the gun lobby as a badge of honor.“Lawmakers should be reading the tea leaves,” said Shannon Watts, the founder of Moms Demand Action for Gun Sense in America, a group that supports restricting gun laws. “In the midterm elections, it was gun safety that got people to the polls.”Other supporters of the legislation argued that the gun provisions made up only a fraction of the protections offered by the bill, and included invaluable resources for survivors.“This wasn’t a gun bill — this is a bill to protect women,” said Lisette Johnson, a member of the Everytown Survivor Network and a survivor of domestic abuse. “This passing today is really a huge support for women and keeping them safer.”Republicans had advocated a clean one-year extension of the current law, which expired in February, arguing that new elements of the legislation were controversial and overreached — in particular, the gun restrictions and language offering additional protections to transgender people.“Can we stop playing political games at the expense of vulnerable women?” asked Representative Elise Stefanik, Republican of New York, before the vote, arguing that the bill put forward by Democrats would “collect dust in the Senate.” (Democrats, who booed vigorously during her speech, rejected her motion.)The vote highlighted the stark contrasts between the new Democratic majority, with its historic number of women, and the Republican minority, which has struggled to attract female voters and to increase the number of conservative women holding office on Capitol Hill. Democrats framed opposition to the legislation’s renewal as a denial of protections for survivors of abuse, efforts to prevent domestic violence and support for law enforcement.Representative Sharice Davids, Democrat of Kansas and one of the first two Native American women elected to Congress in November, presided over the final vote on the measure, which contains a number of protections for women on tribal lands — including a new provision that would allow tribal courts to prosecute nonnative people accused of domestic crimes or dating violence on tribal lands.A number of Democrats, including Ms. Dingell and Representative Katie Porter of California, offered passionate defenses of the legislation, repeatedly drawing on their own experiences as survivors of domestic abuse.“I know that fear, I know that terror and I just want to try to save another family from going through that terror,” Ms. Dingell said at a news conference on Wednesday, recalling being afraid as a child that her father, who had mental illness and owned a gun, would harm her mother or her siblings. “Why would you not close that loophole?”Republicans, beyond objecting to what they said was an infringement on gun ownership, argued that the measure contained other proposals that were too broad for a law intended to protect survivors of assault. In previous hearings and speeches, they had singled out provisions that would expand protections for transgender people and require the Bureau of Prisons to consider the safety and protection of transgender prisoners when giving housing assignments.“We find ourselves debating a VAWA reauthorization act that is literally a Christmas tree of progressive liberal policy objectives, rather than an honest approach to reforming and updating such an important law,” said Representative Debbie Lesko, Republican of Arizona, who is a survivor of domestic abuse.The legislation heads to the Senate, where Senators Dianne Feinstein, Democrat of California, and Joni Ernst, Republican of Iowa, have said they will lead efforts to pass a version. It is unclear how many of the new gun provisions in the House legislation will prevail in the Republican-controlled Senate.“There are a number of improvements in the House bill that I think should be in our version, including preserving improvements already made in the 2013 reauthorization,” Ms. Feinstein said in a statement after the vote. “I hope the Senate will move quickly. This is an important law and one the Senate should take very seriously and act upon expeditiously.”AdvertisementSupported byBy Sheryl Gay StolbergWASHINGTON — The National Rifle Association, the nation’s largest gun lobby, has settled on its next target on Capitol Hill: blocking Congress from reauthorizing the Violence Against Women Act, a 1994 law that assists victims of domestic and sexual violence.The House is set to vote on the legislation this week; the law expired in February. But the bill includes a new provision — aimed at curbing sexual violence by expanding law enforcement’s ability to strip domestic abusers of their guns — that the N.R.A. does not like. The measure closes the so-called boyfriend loophole by barring those convicted of abusing, assaulting or stalking a dating partner or those subject to a court restraining order from buying or owning firearms.Under current federal law, those convicted of domestic abuse can lose their guns if they are — or were formerly — married to their victim, live with their victim, have a child with their victim or are a parent or guardian of their victim. The proposed provision would extend those who can be convicted of domestic abuse to include stalkers and current or former boyfriends or dating partners.Jennifer Baker, a spokeswoman for the N.R.A., said that for “many of those ‘offenses’ — and I’m using air quotes here — the behavior that would qualify as a stalking offense is often not violent or threatening; it involves no personal contact whatsoever.” She argues that the new provision is “too broad and ripe for abuse.”“Like if you were sending harassing messages to somebody on Facebook, to somebody you never met or somebody you dated five years ago,” she said, adding, “How it’s written right now, you could be convicted for a misdemeanor stalking offense for a tweet that causes someone emotional distress and then you would be prohibited from owning a firearm.”Others find the N.R.A.’s argument far-fetched. “A single tweet or Facebook message, without significant other conduct, would ordinarily not be enough” to result in a conviction for stalking, said David Keck, director of the National Resource Center on Domestic Violence and Firearms, which provides guidance to law enforcement and governments on implementing firearms prohibitions, but takes no position on the new domestic violence act provision.And times have changed for the gun lobby. A wave of freshman Democrats in Congress were elected on a promise to enact new gun restrictions, and they proudly campaigned against the N.R.A.“The No. 1 way that women are being killed with guns is by their beloveds, their boyfriends, their significant others,” said one of those freshman Democrats, Representative Lucy McBath of Georgia. “I am not paying attention to the rhetoric of the N.R.A. because I can’t be distracted. What’s most important is putting forth good legislation to save as many lives as we can.” Ms. McBath’s son, Jordan Davis, was shot to death in 2012.Roughly half of all female homicide victims are killed by what experts call “intimate partners” — meaning current or former spouses or dating partners — according to a 2017 study by the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. And about half of intimate partner homicides involved dating relationships, according to Mr. Keck.The “boyfriend loophole” provision is “a refocus on should we be just looking at domestic partners or should we be looking more broadly at intimate partners?” he said.Studies also show that domestic abusers with guns inflict a disproportionate amount of violence on their partners, and that the victims are overwhelmingly female. Abused women are five times more likely to be killed by their abuser if the abuser owns a firearm, according to the Giffords Law Center to Prevent Gun Violence, a gun safety group. Roughly three-quarters of all intimate partner murder victims were also victims of stalking by their partners, according to the National Center for Victims of Crime.“The share of homicides committed by dating partners has been increasing for three decades,” said Shannon Watts, who founded Moms Demand Action for Gun Sense in America, a group that supports tighter gun laws, in response to the massacre at Sandy Hook Elementary School in Connecticut in 2012. “Women are now as likely to be killed by dating partners as by spouses with guns.”The reauthorization bill has one Republican co-sponsor, Representative Brian Fitzpatrick of Pennsylvania. Representative Kevin McCarthy, the House Republican leader, is urging Congress to extend the expired law for the rest of the year to continue funding services to survivors at current levels. Ms. Baker, of the N.R.A., accused Democrats of “playing politics” with the bill by inserting the so-called boyfriend provision as a “poison pill” so that Democrats can portray Republicans who vote against it as anti-woman.The N.R.A. has decided to “score” the vote on the Violence Against Women Act, meaning it will keep track and publish how lawmakers vote in an effort to either reward or defeat them in the next election. While the move is not likely to keep the bill from passing the House, it does make it more likely that the “boyfriend loophole” provision will be stripped from the act when the measure arrives in the Senate.“Anybody who votes for this should take the outrage of the N.R.A. and wear it proudly,” said Representative Debbie Dingell, Democrat of Michigan, who drafted the provision as a separate bill and fought for it to be included in the Violence Against Women Act.Ms. Dingell — whose husband, John D. Dingell Jr., who died this year, served on the N.R.A.’s board of directors — has spoken powerfully of her experiences as a child, cowering in the closet in fear of her father, who struggled with mental illness and had a gun.“I am not someone who wants to take people’s guns away,” she said. “I have lived with a man that was an N.R.A. board member and with a man that shouldn’t have had a gun. And I want to stand up for both sides.”The move to oppose the act comes as the N.R.A.’s power is increasingly being challenged on Capitol Hill and in statehouses around the country by gun control activists, including many students who have taken up the charge after the massacre last year at Marjory Stoneman Douglas High School in Parkland, Fla.Twenty-six states and the District of Columbia passed 67 new gun safety laws in 2018, according to the Giffords Law Center to Prevent Gun Violence. On Capitol Hill, the House in February passed legislation expanding background checks to cover nearly all gun purchases — the first significant gun safety measure in 25 years.Even in the Republican-controlled Senate, Senator Lindsey Graham, chairman of the Senate Judiciary Committee, convened a hearing last week on “red flag laws” or extreme risk protection orders that allow family members and law enforcement officers to obtain court restraining orders to remove firearms from people who have been identified as a risk to themselves or others.So far, 14 states and the District of Columbia have laws allowing extreme risk protection orders. Mr. Graham said he is working on legislation to create incentives for states to enact such bills. Ms. Baker said the N.R.A. agrees with the idea in theory but has not supported any of the state laws because of “serious due process concerns.”The idea has gained traction in some unlikely places — including the White House, where President Trump embraced it when Vice President Mike Pence raised it during a meeting with lawmakers after the school massacre in Parkland.“Or Mike, take the firearms first and then go to court,” Mr. Trump told Mr. Pence, adding, “because a lot of times, by the time you go to court, it takes so long to go to court to get the due process procedures. I like taking the guns early.”AdvertisementSupported byBy Kate TaylorPeople on opposite sides of the debate about guns apparently can’t agree on anything these days — not even the meaning of a string of pearls.On Tuesday, liberal activists expressed outrage at a group of male New Hampshire legislators who wore pearl necklaces at a committee hearing. Shannon Watts, the founder of a gun control group, Moms Demand Action for Gun Sense in America, posted an image of the lawmakers, all Republicans, on Twitter and accused them of mocking her group’s volunteers and others who were testifying.Male New Hampshire lawmakers on the hearing committee wearing pearls to mock @MomsDemand volunteers and gun safety advocates. #NHPolitics pic.twitter.com/rc1S3Bj9lGThe intended message of the pearls wasn’t entirely clear, though one interpretation was that the lawmakers were trying to paint members of the group as “pearl clutchers” — suggesting that they were being overly sensitive. People responding to the tweet attacked the men pictured, calling them bullies and their behavior malicious and cruel.Two Democratic presidential hopefuls, Senators Cory Booker and Kamala Harris, weighed in on Twitter in support of Moms Demand Action, which is an arm of Everytown For Gun Safety, the gun control group financed by Michael Bloomberg. “These moms are fighting to confront gun violence and protect our children,” Ms. Harris said. “They don’t deserve to be mocked.”But a different narrative soon emerged: Kimberly Morin, the president of a gun rights group that also attended the hearing, told The New Hampshire Union Leader that her group had distributed the pearls. The hearing was over a proposed “red flag” bill, which would allow courts to temporarily take away guns from people found to be an immediate risk to themselves or others.In an interview on Wednesday, Ms. Morin said the pearls were not meant to mock anyone, but had for years been a symbol for her group, the Women’s Defense League of New Hampshire, which offers firearms training to women as well as advocating gun rights.“She’s lying,” Ms. Morin said of Ms. Watts, the founder of Moms Demand Action. “That’s my comment — she’s lying.”For her part, Ms. Watts said Ms. Morin’s group was backing away from the necklaces’ original intent. “It started out meant to mock Moms Demand Action volunteers,” she insisted.Ms. Morin traced the origin of the symbolic pearls to 2015. After a hearing that year on a bill to allow people to carry concealed guns without a permit, an anonymous Moms Demand Action volunteer was quoted as saying that many potential opponents of the bill didn’t testify because they were intimidated, Ms. Morin said.“People really don’t like to come and stand in front of a ‘firing squad’ — a group of people with guns,” the volunteer told WMUR, a local television station.Ms. Morin said her group found the statement absurd. That day, some in her group were dressed in business suits — and as it happened, pearls — hardly the attire of a “firing squad.” It was that sequence of events that led the group to make pearls their signature, she said. (The bill was ultimately signed by Gov. Chris Sununu in 2017 at a ceremony rife with pearl necklaces.)New Hampshire has among the least restrictive gun laws in the country, and support for gun rights is strong. Democrats took control of both chambers of the legislature in November and are now pushing a package of bills aimed at setting limits on guns, including bills requiring background checks for commercial gun purchases, creating a waiting period between the purchase and delivery of a gun, and allowing school districts to create gun-free zones.The bills face considerable odds, given that Mr. Sununu, a Republican, has expressed opposition to any changes to the state’s gun laws, a position his spokesman reiterated on Wednesday.AdvertisementSupported byBy Emily CochraneWASHINGTON — The House on Thursday rebuffed a furious lobbying campaign by the National Rifle Association and approved a revamped Violence Against Women Act that would expand law enforcement’s ability to restrict gun purchases by convicted domestic abusers.The legislation passed easily, 263 to 158, but the divided vote came on what was once a broadly bipartisan measure first passed in 1994. In recent years, partisan rancor over efforts to expand the protections of the legislation have clouded efforts to renew it, and this year, the divide was over gun control.The provisions would close the so-called boyfriend loophole and bar those under a restraining order or who were convicted of abusing, assaulting or stalking a domestic partner from buying guns. The N.R.A. seized on the new measures and warned Congress that it would track and publish how lawmakers voted, hoping to intimidate Republicans and Democrats in Republican-leaning districts.“Do not let the N.R.A. bully you,” Representative Debbie Dingell, Democrat of Michigan, urged her colleagues before the vote, noting that her recently deceased husband, former Representative John Dingell Jr., also a Democrat, was a member of the organization.Thirty-three Republicans bucked the threat and voted with the Democratic majority in favor of the legislation — among them, Representative Brian Fitzpatrick of Pennsylvania, the sole Republican sponsor of the reauthorization. Representative Jeff Fortenberry, Republican of Nebraska, voted present.Democrats, including all of the freshman members who won in districts swept by Donald J. Trump in 2016, stood up to the gun lobby, with only one — Representative Collin C. Peterson of Minnesota — voting no.Many in the new majority campaigned on tightening access to guns, and they appeared to embrace condemnation from the gun lobby as a badge of honor.“Lawmakers should be reading the tea leaves,” said Shannon Watts, the founder of Moms Demand Action for Gun Sense in America, a group that supports restricting gun laws. “In the midterm elections, it was gun safety that got people to the polls.”Other supporters of the legislation argued that the gun provisions made up only a fraction of the protections offered by the bill, and included invaluable resources for survivors.“This wasn’t a gun bill — this is a bill to protect women,” said Lisette Johnson, a member of the Everytown Survivor Network and a survivor of domestic abuse. “This passing today is really a huge support for women and keeping them safer.”Republicans had advocated a clean one-year extension of the current law, which expired in February, arguing that new elements of the legislation were controversial and overreached — in particular, the gun restrictions and language offering additional protections to transgender people.“Can we stop playing political games at the expense of vulnerable women?” asked Representative Elise Stefanik, Republican of New York, before the vote, arguing that the bill put forward by Democrats would “collect dust in the Senate.” (Democrats, who booed vigorously during her speech, rejected her motion.)The vote highlighted the stark contrasts between the new Democratic majority, with its historic number of women, and the Republican minority, which has struggled to attract female voters and to increase the number of conservative women holding office on Capitol Hill. Democrats framed opposition to the legislation’s renewal as a denial of protections for survivors of abuse, efforts to prevent domestic violence and support for law enforcement.Representative Sharice Davids, Democrat of Kansas and one of the first two Native American women elected to Congress in November, presided over the final vote on the measure, which contains a number of protections for women on tribal lands — including a new provision that would allow tribal courts to prosecute nonnative people accused of domestic crimes or dating violence on tribal lands.A number of Democrats, including Ms. Dingell and Representative Katie Porter of California, offered passionate defenses of the legislation, repeatedly drawing on their own experiences as survivors of domestic abuse.“I know that fear, I know that terror and I just want to try to save another family from going through that terror,” Ms. Dingell said at a news conference on Wednesday, recalling being afraid as a child that her father, who had mental illness and owned a gun, would harm her mother or her siblings. “Why would you not close that loophole?”Republicans, beyond objecting to what they said was an infringement on gun ownership, argued that the measure contained other proposals that were too broad for a law intended to protect survivors of assault. In previous hearings and speeches, they had singled out provisions that would expand protections for transgender people and require the Bureau of Prisons to consider the safety and protection of transgender prisoners when giving housing assignments.“We find ourselves debating a VAWA reauthorization act that is literally a Christmas tree of progressive liberal policy objectives, rather than an honest approach to reforming and updating such an important law,” said Representative Debbie Lesko, Republican of Arizona, who is a survivor of domestic abuse.The legislation heads to the Senate, where Senators Dianne Feinstein, Democrat of California, and Joni Ernst, Republican of Iowa, have said they will lead efforts to pass a version. It is unclear how many of the new gun provisions in the House legislation will prevail in the Republican-controlled Senate.“There are a number of improvements in the House bill that I think should be in our version, including preserving improvements already made in the 2013 reauthorization,” Ms. Feinstein said in a statement after the vote. “I hope the Senate will move quickly. This is an important law and one the Senate should take very seriously and act upon expeditiously.”AdvertisementSupported byBy Sheryl Gay StolbergWASHINGTON — The National Rifle Association, the nation’s largest gun lobby, has settled on its next target on Capitol Hill: blocking Congress from reauthorizing the Violence Against Women Act, a 1994 law that assists victims of domestic and sexual violence.The House is set to vote on the legislation this week; the law expired in February. But the bill includes a new provision — aimed at curbing sexual violence by expanding law enforcement’s ability to strip domestic abusers of their guns — that the N.R.A. does not like. The measure closes the so-called boyfriend loophole by barring those convicted of abusing, assaulting or stalking a dating partner or those subject to a court restraining order from buying or owning firearms.Under current federal law, those convicted of domestic abuse can lose their guns if they are — or were formerly — married to their victim, live with their victim, have a child with their victim or are a parent or guardian of their victim. The proposed provision would extend those who can be convicted of domestic abuse to include stalkers and current or former boyfriends or dating partners.Jennifer Baker, a spokeswoman for the N.R.A., said that for “many of those ‘offenses’ — and I’m using air quotes here — the behavior that would qualify as a stalking offense is often not violent or threatening; it involves no personal contact whatsoever.” She argues that the new provision is “too broad and ripe for abuse.”“Like if you were sending harassing messages to somebody on Facebook, to somebody you never met or somebody you dated five years ago,” she said, adding, “How it’s written right now, you could be convicted for a misdemeanor stalking offense for a tweet that causes someone emotional distress and then you would be prohibited from owning a firearm.”Others find the N.R.A.’s argument far-fetched. “A single tweet or Facebook message, without significant other conduct, would ordinarily not be enough” to result in a conviction for stalking, said David Keck, director of the National Resource Center on Domestic Violence and Firearms, which provides guidance to law enforcement and governments on implementing firearms prohibitions, but takes no position on the new domestic violence act provision.And times have changed for the gun lobby. A wave of freshman Democrats in Congress were elected on a promise to enact new gun restrictions, and they proudly campaigned against the N.R.A.“The No. 1 way that women are being killed with guns is by their beloveds, their boyfriends, their significant others,” said one of those freshman Democrats, Representative Lucy McBath of Georgia. “I am not paying attention to the rhetoric of the N.R.A. because I can’t be distracted. What’s most important is putting forth good legislation to save as many lives as we can.” Ms. McBath’s son, Jordan Davis, was shot to death in 2012.Roughly half of all female homicide victims are killed by what experts call “intimate partners” — meaning current or former spouses or dating partners — according to a 2017 study by the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. And about half of intimate partner homicides involved dating relationships, according to Mr. Keck.The “boyfriend loophole” provision is “a refocus on should we be just looking at domestic partners or should we be looking more broadly at intimate partners?” he said.Studies also show that domestic abusers with guns inflict a disproportionate amount of violence on their partners, and that the victims are overwhelmingly female. Abused women are five times more likely to be killed by their abuser if the abuser owns a firearm, according to the Giffords Law Center to Prevent Gun Violence, a gun safety group. Roughly three-quarters of all intimate partner murder victims were also victims of stalking by their partners, according to the National Center for Victims of Crime.“The share of homicides committed by dating partners has been increasing for three decades,” said Shannon Watts, who founded Moms Demand Action for Gun Sense in America, a group that supports tighter gun laws, in response to the massacre at Sandy Hook Elementary School in Connecticut in 2012. “Women are now as likely to be killed by dating partners as by spouses with guns.”The reauthorization bill has one Republican co-sponsor, Representative Brian Fitzpatrick of Pennsylvania. Representative Kevin McCarthy, the House Republican leader, is urging Congress to extend the expired law for the rest of the year to continue funding services to survivors at current levels. Ms. Baker, of the N.R.A., accused Democrats of “playing politics” with the bill by inserting the so-called boyfriend provision as a “poison pill” so that Democrats can portray Republicans who vote against it as anti-woman.The N.R.A. has decided to “score” the vote on the Violence Against Women Act, meaning it will keep track and publish how lawmakers vote in an effort to either reward or defeat them in the next election. While the move is not likely to keep the bill from passing the House, it does make it more likely that the “boyfriend loophole” provision will be stripped from the act when the measure arrives in the Senate.“Anybody who votes for this should take the outrage of the N.R.A. and wear it proudly,” said Representative Debbie Dingell, Democrat of Michigan, who drafted the provision as a separate bill and fought for it to be included in the Violence Against Women Act.Ms. Dingell — whose husband, John D. Dingell Jr., who died this year, served on the N.R.A.’s board of directors — has spoken powerfully of her experiences as a child, cowering in the closet in fear of her father, who struggled with mental illness and had a gun.“I am not someone who wants to take people’s guns away,” she said. “I have lived with a man that was an N.R.A. board member and with a man that shouldn’t have had a gun. And I want to stand up for both sides.”The move to oppose the act comes as the N.R.A.’s power is increasingly being challenged on Capitol Hill and in statehouses around the country by gun control activists, including many students who have taken up the charge after the massacre last year at Marjory Stoneman Douglas High School in Parkland, Fla.Twenty-six states and the District of Columbia passed 67 new gun safety laws in 2018, according to the Giffords Law Center to Prevent Gun Violence. On Capitol Hill, the House in February passed legislation expanding background checks to cover nearly all gun purchases — the first significant gun safety measure in 25 years.Even in the Republican-controlled Senate, Senator Lindsey Graham, chairman of the Senate Judiciary Committee, convened a hearing last week on “red flag laws” or extreme risk protection orders that allow family members and law enforcement officers to obtain court restraining orders to remove firearms from people who have been identified as a risk to themselves or others.So far, 14 states and the District of Columbia have laws allowing extreme risk protection orders. Mr. Graham said he is working on legislation to create incentives for states to enact such bills. Ms. Baker said the N.R.A. agrees with the idea in theory but has not supported any of the state laws because of “serious due process concerns.”The idea has gained traction in some unlikely places — including the White House, where President Trump embraced it when Vice President Mike Pence raised it during a meeting with lawmakers after the school massacre in Parkland.“Or Mike, take the firearms first and then go to court,” Mr. Trump told Mr. Pence, adding, “because a lot of times, by the time you go to court, it takes so long to go to court to get the due process procedures. I like taking the guns early.”AdvertisementSupported byBy ReutersSYDNEY — Australia's nationalist One Nation party allegedly sought millions of dollars from the U.S. gun lobby and discussed weakening the country's strict gun control laws with the U.S. National Rifle Association, Al Jazeera reported.Posing as the head of a fake Australian pro-gun lobby, Al Jazeera secretly filmed top officials from Pauline Hanson's One Nation allegedly meeting NRA executives in Washington in 2018. The One Nation officials also discussed the possibility of raising A$20 million ($14.22 million) prior to a meeting with a U.S. gun lobby supporter, the report said.Concerned about foreign influence in Australian politics, particularly from China, the government introduced laws banning foreign political donations in November last year. The One Nation meetings took place in September."Reports that senior One Nation officials courted foreign political donations from the U.S. gun lobby to influence our elections and undermine our gun laws that keep us safe are deeply concerning," Australian Prime Minister Scott Morrison said in a post on Twitter on Tuesday.The two party representatives recorded in the Al Jazeera report, chief of staff James Ashby and Queensland state leader Steve Dickson, confirmed they attended the meetings but denied accepting a donation from the NRA."These conversations with the NRA were to look at nothing more than their (campaign) techniques," Ashby told reporters in Brisbane. "This was not about sourcing money from the NRA."NRA spokesman Andrew Arulanandam referred questions about Al Jazeera's report to the group's lobbying arm, the NRA Institute for Legislative Action. NRA-ILA spokeswoman Jennifer Baker said the group had no comment on the report.Australia has some of the world's strictest firearm laws, implemented after a lone gunman killed 35 people at Port Arthur on the island state of Tasmania in 1996.Australia banned semi-automatic weapons, launched a firearm buy-back scheme after the massacre, and imposed strict licensing rules which require weapons to be locked up when not in use.The role of One Nation in promoting right-wing nationalism in Australia has come under the spotlight in recent days following the killing of 50 Muslims in New Zealand earlier in March, allegedly by an Australian white supremacist. Al Jazeera said on its website the report was three years in the making.In the report, Ashby and Dickson can be heard allegedly telling NRA officials that with their help, the party could win enough seats to gain the balance of power in Australia's upper house of parliament."We get the balance of power, very simply that means that we have the testicles of the government in our hand at every given stage," says Dickson. "Guns, in the scheme of things, are still going to be the be-all and end-all."In another meeting with a U.S. gun lobby supporter, Dickson says: "It's going to get down to money at the end of the day. We can change the voting system in our country, the way people operate, if we've got the money to do it."The footage allegedly records an NRA lobbyist telling both Dickson and Ashby that it would benefit the U.S. pro-gun movement if Australia's gun laws were relaxed."That helps us because the biggest argument we get from folks is, 'Well, look at Australia,'" he says.In an emailed statement to Reuters, Ashby described the recordings as "skullduggery" and said he had referred the matter to the Australian Security Intelligence Organisation and the Australian Federal Police over concerns of foreign political interference in the lead-up to a federal election in May.Al Jazeera is Qatar's state-owned broadcaster. The head of its investigative unit who reported the segment, Peter Charley, said the allegation he was acting on behalf of a foreign government were "risible.""We're journalists doing a job," Charley told Reuters by telephone. "The original intention was to infiltrate the NRA. It was only quite late in the game that One Nation came into the frame."Nationalists have struggled to gain a significant voting bloc in Australia's parliament, although One Nation did wield considerable influence in the upper house between 2016 and 2018.The party fractured last year with several resignations, but it is hoping to regroup at the coming national election, with its support base being largely rural voters disillusioned with the major parties which they accuse of being city-focused. AdvertisementSupported byBy The Associated PressCANBERRA, Australia — Australia's prime minister on Tuesday accused an influential minor political party of trying to "sell Australia's gun laws to the highest bidders" by asking the U.S. gun lobby for donations.Prime Minister Scott Morrison was responding to an Al Jazeera documentary that reported One Nation party officials Steve Dickson and James Ashby flew to the United States for meetings with pro-gun interests including the National Rifle Association and political donors Koch Industries in September last year seeking money to undermine Australian gun laws.Dickson and Ashby later told reporters that they had not secured any U.S. money. They also said they had been quoted by Al Jazeera out of context and often after drinking.The trip took place weeks before the Australian Parliament banned foreign political donations with laws that took effect Jan. 1.Morrison said the revelations were reasons why Australians should not vote for One Nation at general elections due in May."We have reports that One Nation officials basically sought to sell Australia's gun laws to the highest bidders to a foreign buyer and I find that abhorrent," Morrison said.Morrison said his government had made laws to "criminalize taking foreign political donations so foreign lobbyists cannot seek to influence our politics."Opposition leader Bill Shorten, whom opinion polls suggest will be prime minister after the election, accused One Nation of a "betrayal of the Australian political system.""The idea of One National political party operatives going to the United States, seeking millions of dollars, promising to water-down gun law protection in Australia — that was absolutely horrifying," Shorten said.The Al Jazeera documentary used secret recordings made by a journalist posing as gun lobbyist Rodger Muller with a hidden camera.One Nation, an anti-Muslim party that had four senators after 2016 election but has been left with two after defections, said in a statement that all party members "have always complied with the law."One Nation also suggested the Qatar-owned Al Jazeera had breached new laws that prohibit covert foreign interference in Australian politics. The party said it had had complained to Australia's main domestic security agency and police "due to concerns of foreign interference into Australian politics in the lead up to the imminent federal election.""Al Jazeera are a state owned propaganda arm of the Qatari government that supports Islamic extremist groups and are not a legitimate media organization," the statement said."One Nation was invited by Rodger Muller, who has now been outed as a foreign agent working for Al Jazeera to meet with the NRA, American business leaders and attend the Congressional Sportsmen's Dinner" in Washington, the statement said.The NRA in a statement late Tuesday said Al Jazeera representatives, disguised as members of a group called "Gun Rights Australia," had set up meetings with NRA employees and brought Australian political party members to those meetings. "At no time did the NRA contribute funding to any Australian political party or Gun Rights Australia," NRA spokeswoman Jennifer Baker said in the statement.Ashby, who is party leader Pauline Hanson's chief of staff, is recorded saying that the party would "own" both the Australian Senate and House of Representatives with a $20 million donation from the U.S. gun lobby. This means the party would hold the balance of power in both chambers and influence a government's legislative agenda.Ashby also warned that if such a donation became public, it would "rock the boat."He told reporters on Tuesday that the U.S. trip had been a fact-finding mission to learn campaign tactics."These conversations with the NRA were to look at nothing more than their techniques. This was not about sourcing money from the NRA. This was about sourcing technology, sourcing an understanding of how they operate, but never was it about seeking $20 million dollars from the NRA," Ashby told reporters.The news followed the mosque attacks in New Zealand on March 15 for which an Australian white supremacist has been charged with murder. New Zealand has responded by banning a range of semi-automatic weapons and foreshadowing a government-funded buyback of newly outlawed guns. The country's response is similar to how Australia strengthened its gun laws following the murders of 35 people by a lone gunman in 1996 in Tasmania.One Nation state president Steve Dickson, who is a Senate candidate at the next election, traveled with Ashby and Muller to the United States to ask for political donations, Al Jazeera reported.Dickon told NRA officials that the Australian gun control model "will poison us all, unless we stop it," Al Jazeera reported.Dickson told reporters on Tuesday he supported Australia's gun laws. He said had not solicited donations in the United States, but conceded his party was not wealthy."I will tell you the absolute, humble truth. When I was asked: 'Do we need money to run election campaigns?' I said: 'Yes,'" Dickson told reporters.A former One Nation senator who is now an independent lawmaker, Fraser Anning, has been widely criticized for blaming Muslim immigration for the New Zealand massacre.Hanson, One Nation's leader who was criticized for wearing a burqa in the Senate, voted for the ban on foreign donations in November.AdvertisementSupported byBy The Associated PressCANBERRA, Australia — Australia's prime minister has accused an influential minor political party of trying to "sell Australia's gun laws to the highest bidders" by asking the U.S. gun lobby for donations.Prime Minister Scott Morrison was responding to an Al Jazeera documentary that reported One Nation party officials Steve Dickson and James Ashby flew to the United States for meetings with pro-gun interests including the National Rifle Association and political donors Koch Industries in September last year seeking money to undermine Australian gun laws.Dickson and Ashby later told reporters that they had not secured any U.S. money. They also said they had been quoted by Al Jazeera out of context and often after drinking.The trip took place weeks before the Australian Parliament banned foreign political donations with laws that took effect Jan. 1.Morrison said the revelations were reasons why Australians should not vote for One Nation at general elections due in May."We have reports that One Nation officials basically sought to sell Australia's gun laws to the highest bidders to a foreign buyer and I find that abhorrent," Morrison said Tuesday.Morrison said his government had made laws to "criminalize taking foreign political donations so foreign lobbyists cannot seek to influence our politics."Opposition leader Bill Shorten, whom opinion polls suggest will be prime minister after the election, accused One Nation of a "betrayal of the Australian political system.""The idea of One National political party operatives going to the United States, seeking millions of dollars, promising to water-down gun law protection in Australia — that was absolutely horrifying," Shorten said.The Al Jazeera documentary used secret recordings made by a journalist posing as gun lobbyist Rodger Muller with a hidden camera.One Nation, an anti-Muslim party that had four senators after 2016 election but has been left with two after defections, said in a statement that all party members "have always complied with the law."One Nation also suggested the Qatar-owned Al Jazeera had breached new laws that prohibit covert foreign interference in Australian politics. The party said it had had complained to Australia's main domestic security agency and police "due to concerns of foreign interference into Australian politics in the lead up to the imminent federal election.""Al Jazeera are a state-owned propaganda arm of the Qatari government that supports Islamic extremist groups and are not a legitimate media organization," the statement said."One Nation was invited by Rodger Muller, who has now been outed as a foreign agent working for Al Jazeera to meet with the NRA, American business leaders and attend the Congressional Sportsmen's Dinner" in Washington, the statement said.Al Jazeera said it stood by its reporting and that its journalists "adhere to the highest standards of professionalism and objectivity.""The suggestion that our staff is involved in espionage is both unfounded and, quite frankly, farcical," it said in a statement. It said it provided One Nation and its leaders "with an opportunity to comment on our evidence prior to broadcast but they declined to do so."The NRA in a statement late Tuesday said Al Jazeera representatives, disguised as members of a group called "Gun Rights Australia," had set up meetings with NRA employees and brought Australian political party members to those meetings. "At no time did the NRA contribute funding to any Australian political party or Gun Rights Australia," NRA spokeswoman Jennifer Baker said in the statement.Ashby, who is party leader Pauline Hanson's chief of staff, is recorded saying that the party would "own" both the Australian Senate and House of Representatives with a $20 million donation from the U.S. gun lobby. This means the party would hold the balance of power in both chambers and influence a government's legislative agenda.Ashby also warned that if such a donation became public, it would "rock the boat."He told reporters on Tuesday that the U.S. trip had been a fact-finding mission to learn campaign tactics."These conversations with the NRA were to look at nothing more than their techniques. This was not about sourcing money from the NRA. This was about sourcing technology, sourcing an understanding of how they operate, but never was it about seeking $20 million dollars from the NRA," Ashby told reporters.The news followed the mosque attacks in New Zealand on March 15 for which an Australian white supremacist has been charged with murder. New Zealand has responded by banning a range of semi-automatic weapons and foreshadowing a government-funded buyback of newly outlawed guns. The country's response is similar to how Australia strengthened its gun laws following the murders of 35 people by a lone gunman in 1996 in Tasmania.One Nation state president Steve Dickson, who is a Senate candidate at the next election, traveled with Ashby and Muller to the United States to ask for political donations, Al Jazeera reported.Dickon told NRA officials that the Australian gun control model "will poison us all, unless we stop it," Al Jazeera reported.Dickson told reporters on Tuesday he supported Australia's gun laws. He said had not solicited donations in the United States, but conceded his party was not wealthy."I will tell you the absolute, humble truth. When I was asked: 'Do we need money to run election campaigns?' I said: 'Yes,'" Dickson told reporters.A former One Nation senator who is now an independent lawmaker, Fraser Anning, has been widely criticized for blaming Muslim immigration for the New Zealand massacre.Hanson, One Nation's leader who was criticized for wearing a burqa in the Senate, voted for the ban on foreign donations in November.AdvertisementSupported byBy ReutersSYDNEY — Australia's nationalist One Nation party allegedly sought millions of dollars from the U.S. gun lobby and discussed weakening the country's strict gun control laws with the U.S. National Rifle Association (NRA), Al Jazeera reported.Posing as the head of a fake Australian pro-gun lobby, Al Jazeera secretly filmed top officials from Pauline Hanson's One Nation allegedly meeting NRA executives in Washington in 2018. It also reported the One Nation officials discussing the possibility of raising A$20 million ($14.22 million) prior to a meeting with a U.S. gun lobby supporter.Concerned about foreign influence in Australian politics, particularly from China, the government introduced laws banning foreign political donations in November last year. The One Nation meetings took place in September."Reports that senior One Nation officials courted foreign political donations from the U.S. gun lobby to influence our elections and undermine our gun laws that keep us safe are deeply concerning," Australian Prime Minister Scott Morrison Tweeted on Tuesday.One Nation confirmed in a statement their two representatives attended the meetings, but there was no evidence in the Al Jazeera TV report, aired late on Monday, that a donation was made.Calls and emails to the NRA headquarters in Virginia were not immediately returned.Australia has some of the world's strictest firearm laws, implemented after a lone gunman killed 35 people at Port Arthur on the island state of Tasmania in 1996.Australia banned semi-automatic weapons, launched a firearm buy-back scheme after the massacre, and imposed strict licensing rules which require weapons to be locked up when not in use.Al Jazeera said the report was three years in the making.In the report, One Nation's chief-of-staff James Ashby and Queensland state leader Steve Dickson can be seen allegedly telling NRA officials that with its help the party could win enough seats to gain the balance of power in Australia's upper house of parliament."We get the balance of power, very simply that means that we have the testicles of the government in our hand at every given stage," says Dickson. "Guns, in the scheme of things, are still going to be the be-all and end-all."In another meeting with a U.S. gun lobby supporter, Dickson says: "It's going to get down to money at the end of the day. We can change the voting system in our country, the way people operate, if we've got the money to do it."Ashby confirmed One Nation had been invited to attend the meetings but he accused Al Jazeera of interfering in Australia's looming national election, due in May."The matter has been referred to ASIO (the Australian Security Intelligence Organisation) and the Australian Federal Police due to concerns of foreign interference into Australian politics in the lead-up to the imminent federal election," Ashby said in the emailed statement.The footage allegedly records an NRA lobbyist telling both Dickson and Ashby that it would benefit the U.S. pro-gun movement if Australia's gun laws were relaxed."That helps us because the biggest argument we get from folks is, 'Well look at Australia'," he says.The role of One Nation in promoting right-wing nationalism in Australia has come under the spotlight in recent days following the killing of 50 Muslims in New Zealand, allegedly by an Australian white supremacist.Nationalists have struggled to gain a significant voting bloc in Australia's parliament, although One Nation did wield considerable influence in the upper house between 2016 and 2018.AdvertisementSupported byLetter 100By Isabella KwaiThis is our 100th Australia Letter. Thanks for reading and subscribing! For our next 100, we’ll be drawing in new writers and new approaches. Sign up to get it by email and tell us what you think: nytaustralia@nytimes.com.___In 2015, Al-Jazeera’s Investigative Unit had a question: what did the National Rifle Association say about mass shootings behind closed doors?To answer it, they planned a lengthy undercover investigation, in which a reporter posed as an Australian gun lobbyist to infiltrate meetings with the NRA and with One Nation, a far-right, anti-immigration party.The result, released in a two part documentary that aired on the Australian Broadcasting Corporation, is — at the very least — compelling.In hidden camera footage shot during a trip to the United States last year, senior figures from One Nation are heard discussing the influence a donation from the American gun lobby could buy in the Australia’s parliament. The cameras also captured advice from the NRA on how to respond to mass shootings and sway public opinion toward gun ownership.Australia has some of the toughest gun laws in the world, and the country is proud of it. So news that a political party’s officials were willing to soften the rules for foreign donations were met with alarm.Since then, Pauline Hanson, the party’s leader, has said the comments were taken out of context — she called Al-Jazeera an “Islamist” organization and a “Middle Eastern foreign agent.” But she also attacked the report’s ethics, calling it an “illegal, covert operation.”Was she at least a little bit right?There are of course many well-known accounts of undercover journalism and like many people, I’ve read them with interest, from Gloria Steinem’s infiltration of Playboy Clubs to Shane Bauer’s stint as an American prison guard.It’s one solution to a challenge all reporters think about: How do you get the information you need from those who don’t want to share?I spoke to two professors about Al-Jazeera’s report, and also asked The New York Times’s standards editor, Phil Corbett, for his views.Phil made clear that according to the Times ethics guide, staff members “should disclose their identity to people they cover” and “may not record conversations without the prior consent of all parties to the conversations.”Exceptions involving sustained deception have been extremely rare, he said.“Overall, we think, this is the best way to insure both fairness to our subjects and credibility with our readers.”That being said, he added, “we recognize that other news organizations have sometimes taken different approaches, and there is a long history of undercover reporting that unearthed important information.”The two professors I interviewed both argued that the story’s main discovery — that an Australian political party was aligning themselves with a controversial lobby group to potentially change policy — was clearly in the public interest.But they also agreed that there were two key areas that raise questions and concerns: The use of hidden cameras and the fact that an undercover reporter became a part of the story.One justification is that the documentary was transparent about its methods, said Andrew Dodd, director for the Centre for Advancing Journalism at the University of Melbourne.“The audience is fully aware of the artifice that was created,” he said. “The audience is therefore able to make an informed decision about what they’re watching.”But to go undercover for so long on this scale is not considered normal reporting “in any way, shape or form,” he added. “This should be a last resort. This has to remain extraordinary journalism that is practiced rarely and only for the very best reasons.”That reason would be to bring truths to the public that would not ever reach them otherwise, he said.He pointed to one moment in the documentary when the NRA discusses their social media strategy after shootings. “You see a glimpse of truth in that moment that you couldn’t get in a two hour debate,” he said.But Peter Greste, a former journalist for Al-Jazeera, now a professor at the University of Queensland, said the story crossed a line in having a reporter broker the meeting between the One Nation party and the NRA.“We are supposed to be observers to the news, not participants,” he said. “It’s inappropriate for journalists to become parts of the story the way they clearly did in this case.”While the findings are “distasteful,” the party was not doing anything illegal, he added.What also raises concerns is the party’s decision to refer Al-Jazeera to the federal police force and Australia’s national security agency, which Mr. Greste called a “dangerous precedent” — the consequences of which he is intimately familiar with.While working for Al-Jazeera in Cairo in 2013, Mr. Greste was arrested and detained by the Egyptian government for terrorism offences. “What happened to us in Egypt was the government using national security to effectively silence the press.”Given the cynicism toward journalism these days, he said, upholding the role of the impartial watchdog to gain public trust is more important than ever: “When you let ethical standards slip then I think we do damage to that support.”So where do you stand on this? How important is ethical reporting to you in the pursuit of stories in the public interest? Shoot us an email at nytaustralia@nytimes.com or join our NYT Australia Facebook group where we’ll be discussing this in detail.Now, onto a selection of the best Times stories of the week!___This week, we continue reporting on Christchurch and bring you a Netflix guide.• Prosecutors Accuse Australian Journalists of Violating Gag Order on Cardinal’s Trial: The journalists could face fines and possibly prison time over the allegations, which stem from Cardinal George Pell’s trial and conviction on sexual abuse charges.• 10 Days After Christchurch Shootings, Jacinda Ardern Announces a Trip to China: The announcement signaled a shift after signs of growing tensions between the two countries.• Mourners Honor Dead With Call To Prayer in Christchurch: “This terrorist sought to tear our nation apart with an evil ideology that has torn the world apart — but instead we have shown that New Zealand is unbreakable,” said one imam.• ‘This Egg Has United People,’ Teenager Says of Protest Against Bigotry: 17-year-old Will Connolly broke his silence on egg-actly what happened and his reaction to his newfound fame. (I had to.)• ’10 Things I Hate About You,’ When Heath Ledger Was Just Breaking Through: An interview with the cast, screenwriters and director of the late 90s rom-com classic.• The Best Movies and TV Shows New to Netflix Australia in April: Making Netflix choices just too easy for you.___Last Friday, Attorney General William P. Barr told congressional leaders that the special counsel, Robert S. Mueller III, has concluded his inquiry into Russian interference in the 2016 election.The investigation found that neither President Trump nor any of his aides conspired with the Russian government, but did not draw conclusions on any obstruction of justice. To catch up on the highlights, read our live briefing here. You can also read a summary of the report here.___Four of our most popular stories of the week.• Adventurous, Alone, Attacked: The number of female solo travelers has skyrocketed, but amid Instagram-worthy escapades are tales of violence and death, raising questions about how the world is greeting women who travel alone.• The Daily Miracle: Finding Magic Inside The Times’s Printing Plant: The photographer Christopher Payne spent two years shooting The Times’s printing plant in College Point, Queens. He captured the craft, precision, and unexpected beauty of the newspaper printing process.• ‘Dog Suicide Bridge’: Why Do So Many Pets Keep Leaping Into a Scottish Gorge?: Scots insist that hundreds of dogs have been mysteriously compelled to throw themselves off a stone bridge.AdvertisementSupported byBy The Associated PressThe Latest on the 2020 campaign season (all times Eastern):7:40 p.m.Democratic presidential candidates are making it clear that there are new voices competing for voters' attention.California Sen. Kamala Harris sent a signal to the nation's old-guard that there's a time to move aside. At an Atlanta church service Sunday dedicated to youth, the presidential candidate compared leadership to a relay race in which older leaders must ask themselves and decide "when to pass the baton."Sen. Kirsten Gillibrand made her official announcement in front of the Trump International Hotel and Tower in New York and called him a coward who "punches down." Sen. Elizabeth Warren told a New Hampshire crowd that the NRA is holding Congress hostage on gun laws.___6:40 p.m.Howard Schultz will attend the annual conference of the American Israel Public Affairs Committee on Monday evening. That from Schultz aide Erin McPike.Schultz's decision to attend the annual AIPAC conference in Washington comes as Democrats have been grappling with the left's criticism of Israel and as most presidential candidates are sitting this year's conference out. Schultz is actively considering an independent presidential bid himself.On Friday, Schultz responded to a tweet from the liberal advocacy group MoveOn, which has been urging Democratic presidential candidates not to attend. He said that the "unwillingness of the far left to even speak with people they may disagree with is one of the worst symbols of the dysfunction in Washington today."___2:30 p.m.Sen. Elizabeth Warren says the National Rifle Association is holding "Congress hostage" when it comes to stemming gun violence.The Massachusetts senator and Democratic presidential candidate tells a campaign rally that if seven children were dying from a mysterious virus, "we'd pull out all the stops till we figured out what was wrong." But in terms of gun violence, she says the NRA "keeps calling the shots in Washington."Warren finished a two-day campaign trip to New Hampshire with an event at middle school in Conway Sunday afternoon.Warren focused much of her speech on her approach to economics, but paid special attention to unions Sunday. She says more power needs to be put back in the hands of workers.___1:50 p.m.California Sen. Kamala Harris may be dropping a hint on what she thinks about former Vice President Joe Biden, who is considering a third bid for the White House.At an Atlanta church service Sunday, Harris compared leadership to a relay race in which each generation must ask themselves "what do we do during that period of time when we carry that baton."Then she added with a smile that for "the older leaders, it also becomes a question of let's also know when to pass the baton."Harris is 54 years old. Biden is 76, and some of his supporters have said he's aware that his age could be a political liability in the Democratic primary. He wouldn't be the oldest contender, though. Vermont Sen. Bernie Sanders is 77.___1:40 p.m.Democratic presidential candidate Kirsten Gillibrand is assailing President Donald Trump as a coward who is "tearing apart the moral fabric of the vulnerable."The senator is speaking in New York, feet away from one of Trump's signature properties, the Trump International Hotel and Tower.She says that instead of building walls as Trump wants to do along the U.S.-Mexico border, Americans build bridges, community and hope.Gillibrand also called for full release of special counsel Robert Mueller's report in the Russia investigation. Attorney General William Barr was expected to release a summary of principal conclusions, but Democrats want to see the full details.Gillibrand is trying to position herself in the crowded field of Democrats seeking the party's nomination. While some hopefuls have shied away from mentioning Trump, Gillibrand has not hesitated to do so.___1:25 p.m.Democratic presidential candidate Beto O'Rourke is telling voters in Las Vegas that President Donald Trump bears blame for the separation of families at the U.S.-Mexico border but responsibility lies with everyone in the country to fix the situation.O'Rourke spoke Sunday to more than 200 people packed into and snaking around a taco shop on the city's north end. He says immigrant families are leaving their home countries and journeying on foot because they have no other choice.The former Texas congressman says desperate families were broken up in the U.S. when they were at their most vulnerable and desperate moments, and what happened to them "is on every single one of us."___9 a.m.As New York Sen. Kirsten Gillibrand officially kicks off her Democratic presidential campaign in New York City, her rivals are courting voters in early primary states.Several Democratic White House hopefuls are campaigning Sunday, the day the Justice Department is expected to release key findings from special counsel Robert Mueller's confidential report on the Russia investigation.Vermont Sen. Bernie Sanders continues his California swing with a trip to San Francisco.AdvertisementSupported byBy The Associated PressSACRAMENTO, Calif. — It appears the shipment of high-capacity ammunition magazines into California has started for the first time in nearly two decades after a judge tossed out a ban on sales and purchases of the items, the state attorney general said Tuesday.Attorney General Xavier Becerra asked a federal judge to delay implementing the ruling while he appeals it.U.S. District Judge Roger Benitez in San Diego said Friday that a law that bans possessing, buying or selling any magazines holding more than 10 bullets infringes on the Second Amendment right to bear arms.With the ban lifted, even temporarily, Becerra said in a court filing that "there is evidence that sales have begun already."His office cited a Facebook ad from an out-of-state, online dealer saying it will ship the large-capacity magazines to California. The ad urged buyers to be patient because of an expected increase in orders."We are getting prepared to send a whole lot of freedom to our friends in California," reads the post from South Carolina-based Palmetto State Armory. The company did not immediately respond to telephone and email messages.Chuck Michel, an attorney for the NRA and the California Rifle & Pistol Association who filed the lawsuit that led to the ruling, agreed with Becerra that it allows individuals to legally acquire high-capacity magazines."There's dealers advertising them now and there are chat rooms where people are discussing buying them and we're getting calls from dealers asking what's legal to acquire," Michel said."The gray area is, what will the status of these magazines acquired during this window be if the stay is reinstated?" Michel said.If the 9th U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals reinstates the ban and a 2016 law outlawing possession, Michel said, buyers could be legally required to give up their newly acquired high-capacity magazines.However, Becerra warned in his court filing that it would be difficult for the state to remove the magazines, even if the ban is reinstated.Becerra said in a statement that California leads the nation when it comes to gun safety and refuses to go backward.AdvertisementSupported byBy ReutersDENVER — The Colorado legislature on Monday passed a "red flag" bill that would allow those deemed a threat to have their firearms seized, despite opposition by most of the state’s sheriffs and threats of legal challenges.Both chambers of the Democratic-controlled General Assembly approved the measure, sending it to the desk of Governor Jared Polis, also a Democrat, who has indicated his support for the measure.If signed into law, Colorado would become the 15th state to enact similar legislation, also called Extreme Risk Protection Orders, according to a statement from statehouse Democrats.Under the legislation, a family member or law enforcement officer could petition a judge to seize firearms from a person they think is a threat to themselves or others. The judge could then hold a hearing without the targeted person being present and grant a temporary order for 14 days.After the two-week order, both the petitioner and the gun owner could then try to persuade a judge why the firearms should or should not be returned.About 50 of the state’s 62 elected sheriffs oppose the measure, according to Weld County Sheriff Steve Reams, who told Reuters he would not enforce the law because it could put his deputies at risk if they raid a home without prior notice.'UNCHALLENGED STATEMENTS'The Second Amendment to the U.S. Constitution guarantees citizens the right to keep and bear arms. Opponents say the Colorado measure goes too far because it does not allow for a person to be heard in court before a judge issues a gun removal order.“Unchallenged statements made by a petitioner before a judge ... would be sufficient for law enforcement to enter that person’s home and confiscate their private property,” the National Rifle Association (NRA) said in a statement.One of the proposal’s sponsors, House Rep. Tom Sullivan, said he ran for elected office after his son Alex was killed in a mass shooting at a Colorado movie theater in 2012.“This bill will give law enforcement and families the tools that they need to stop tragedies from constantly happening and save lives," said Sullivan, a Democrat.The board of commissioners in heavily-Republican El Paso County passed a resolution last month vowing to "actively resist" the law, including taking legal action, if it is enacted.AdvertisementSupported byBy ReutersWASHINGTON — Maria Butina, who has admitted to working as a Russian agent to infiltrate an influential gun rights group and make inroads with U.S. conservative activists and Republicans, will be sentenced on April 26, U.S. District Judge Tanya Chutkan said on Thursday.Butina, a former graduate student at American University who publicly advocated for gun rights, pleaded guilty in December to one count of conspiring to act as a foreign agent for Russia. She has remained in custody since her arrest in July 2018.The 30-year-old native of Siberia wore a green jail jump suit during the brief hearing in Washington, but said nothing.Chutkan said during the hearing that sentencing memos from prosecutors and Butina's defense team will be due a week before the sentencing date. Prosecutors and defense lawyers approached the bench for a discussion with the judge, but the subject of those talks was not made public.Butina has admitted to conspiring with a Russian official and two Americans from 2015 until her arrest to infiltrate the National Rifle Association and create unofficial lines of communication to try to make Washington's policy toward Moscow more friendly. The NRA is closely aligned with U.S. conservatives and Republican politicians including President Donald Trump.Chutkan in February had delayed the sentencing at the request of prosecutors, who said Butina was cooperating in their ongoing investigation. Butina's attorney, Robert Driscoll, said at the time his client was ready for sentencing.Russia in December accused the United States of forcing Butina to falsely confess to what it described as the "absolutely ridiculous charges" of her being a Russian agent.Court records have pointed to the involvement of several others with Butina's actions including Paul Erickson, a conservative political activist with deep Republican ties who was romantically linked to her. Erickson is referred to as "Person 1" court records, which stated that he helped advise her on which American politicians to target for meetings.Erickson's attorney William Hurd declined to comment.Federal prosecutors in South Dakota have charged Erickson with 11 counts of wire fraud and money laundering unrelated to the case against Butina. Erickson's indictment appeared to make references to her when it said he made a payment of $8,000 to an "M.B." in June 2015 and another payment of $1,000 to "M.B." in March 2017, as well as more than $20,000 to American University in June 2017.Alexander Torshin, who was a deputy governor of Russia's central bank, has been identified as the Russian official involved in Butina's case. AdvertisementSupported byBy The Associated PressSACRAMENTO, Calif. — High-capacity gun magazines will remain legal in California under a ruling Friday by a federal judge who cited home invasions where a woman used the extra bullets in her weapon to kill an attacker while in two other cases women without additional ammunition ran out of bullets."Individual liberty and freedom are not outmoded concepts," San Diego-based U.S. District Judge Roger Benitez wrote as he declared unconstitutional the law that would have banned possessing any magazines holding more than 10 bullets.California law has prohibited buying or selling such magazines since 2000, but those who had them before then were allowed to keep them.In 2016, the Legislature and voters approved a law removing that provision. The California arm of the National Rifle Association sued and Benitez sided with the group's argument that banning the magazines infringes on the Second Amendment right to bear arms.Benitez had temporarily blocked the law from taking effect with a 2017 ruling.Chuck Michel, an attorney for the NRA and the California Rifle & Pistol Association, said the judge's latest ruling may go much farther by striking down the entire ban, allowing individuals to legally acquire high-capacity magazines for the first time in nearly two decades."We're still digesting the opinion but it appears to us that he struck down both the latest ban on possessing by those who are grandfathered in, but also said that everyone has a right to acquire one," Michel said.Attorney General Xavier Becerra said in a statement that his office is "committed to defending California's common sense gun laws" and is reviewing the decision and evaluating its next steps.The goal of the California law is to deter mass-shootings, with Becerra previously listing as an example the terrorist assault that killed 14 and injured 22 in San Bernardino.Benitez, an appointee of Republican President George W. Bush, called such shootings "exceedingly rare" while emphasizing the everyday robberies, rapes and murders he said might be countered with firearms.The Giffords Law Center to Prevent Gun Violence, named after a former congresswoman who survived a mass shooting, is also still evaluating whether the decision applies more broadly, said staff attorney Ari Freilich.But Freilich predicted the "extreme outlier decision" will be overturned on appeal and criticized a judge "so deeply out of touch that he believes mass shootings are a 'very small' problem in this country."Becerra previously said similar Second Amendment challenges have been repeatedly rejected by other courts, with at least seven other states and 11 local governments already restricting the possession or sale of large-capacity magazines. The conflicting decisions may ultimately be sorted out by the U.S. Supreme Court.Benitez ruled that magazines holding more than 10 rounds are "arms" under the U.S. Constitution, and that the California law "burdens the core of the Second Amendment by criminalizing the acquisition and possession of these magazines that are commonly held by law-abiding citizens for defense of self, home, and state."Benitez described three home invasions, two of which ended with the female victims running out of bullets.In the third case, the pajama-clad woman with a high-capacity magazine took on three armed intruders, firing at them while simultaneously calling for help on her phone."She had no place to carry an extra magazine and no way to reload because her left hand held the phone with which she was still trying to call 911," the judge wrote, saying she killed one attacker while two escaped.The magazine ban was included in 2016 legislation that voters strengthened with their approval of Proposition 63, which was championed by then-Lt. Gov. Gavin Newsom.AdvertisementSupported byBy The Associated PressATLANTA — California Sen. Kamala Harris sent a subtle signal to the old-guard of Democratic politics that every era has its end.At an Atlanta church service dedicated to youth Sunday, the presidential candidate compared leadership to a relay race in which each generation must ask themselves "what do we do during that period of time when we carry that baton."Then she added with a smile that for "the older leaders, it also becomes a question of let's also know when to pass the baton."The 54-year-old senator — one of the younger contenders for the White House in 2020 — did not mention any other presidential hopeful or tie her remarks to the Democratic presidential scramble. Her spokeswoman said she only wanted to encourage the youth at Ebenezer Baptist Church.Her commentary to the congregation once led by Martin Luther King Jr. comes as former Vice President Joe Biden, 76, considers whether to join a field that already includes Vermont Sen. Bernie Sanders, who is 77. Both men have run for president before and fallen short.'Biden and Sanders are seen as strong contenders for the Democratic nomination, though other candidates and some voters have emphasized the need for a more youthful approach to try and beat President Donald Trump in the general election. Several other candidates in the race, including two governors, are also in their late sixties.Harris noted Sunday that King was 26 when he led the Montgomery Bus Boycotts that pushed him to the forefront of the civil rights movement.Later Sunday, Harris told a rally at Morehouse College in Atlanta that Attorney General William Barr should testify under oath on Capitol Hill, rather than just submit the written summary of special counsel Robert Mueller's report on the Russia investigation.The Justice Department said Sunday that Mueller's team did not find evidence that Trump's campaign "conspired or coordinated" with Russia to influence the 2016 presidential election. Mueller also investigated whether Trump obstructed justice but did not come to a definitive answer.Other highlights of Sunday campaigning:KIRSTEN GILLIBRANDDemocratic presidential candidate Kirsten Gillibrand assailed President Donald Trump as a coward who is "tearing apart the moral fabric of the vulnerable," as she officially started her campaign for president.The senator spoke in New York Sunday, feet away from one of Trump's signature properties, the Trump International Hotel and Tower.She said that instead of building walls as Trump wants to do along the U.S.-Mexico border, Americans build bridges, community and hope.Gillibrand also called for full release of Mueller's report in the Russia investigation. Attorney General William Barr released a summary Sunday afternoon, but Democrats want to see the full details.Gillibrand is trying to position herself in the crowded field of Democrats seeking the party's nomination. While some hopefuls have shied away from mentioning Trump, Gillibrand has not hesitated to do so.ELIZABETH WARRENSen. Elizabeth Warren said Sunday the National Rifle Association is holding "Congress hostage" when it comes to stemming gun violence.The Massachusetts senator and Democratic presidential candidate tells a campaign rally that if seven children were dying from a mysterious virus, "we'd pull out all the stops till we figured out what was wrong." But in terms of gun violence, she said the NRA "keeps calling the shots in Washington."Warren finished a two-day campaign trip to New Hampshire with an event at a middle school in Conway Sunday afternoon.Warren focused much of her speech on her approach to economics, but paid special attention to unions Sunday. She said more power needs to be put back in the hands of workers.BETO O'ROURKEDemocratic presidential candidate Beto O'Rourke told voters in Las Vegas Sunday that President Donald Trump bears blame for the separation of families at the U.S.-Mexico border but responsibility lies with everyone in the country to fix the situation.O'Rourke spoke Sunday to more than 200 people packed into and snaking around a taco shop on the city's north end. He said immigrant families are leaving their home countries and journeying on foot because they have no other choice.The former Texas congressman said desperate families were broken up in the U.S. when they were at their most vulnerable and desperate moments, and what happened to them "is on every single one of us."AdvertisementSupported byDAILY CROSSWORD COLUMNRyan McCarty lets us indulge but makes us exercise. Everyone into the pool!By Caitlin LovingerSATURDAY PUZZLE —  I love those puzzles (mostly Sundays, I think) where the theme is a joke that is unfurled over several entries with its punch line at the bottom. We’re themeless today, as usual on a Saturday, but the short stack in the middle of the grid made me laugh, if a bit ruefully, as I mentally joined the four entries. Just don’t take the last line to heart! It’s not about us, it’s some other guy.All four of those phrases are debuts, by the way; Ryan McCarty introduces language to the puzzle at a pretty good clip. I thought most of today’s puzzle was fair but fairly tough, smooth and very witty.I’m modest and slow, so please don’t take this as any sort of humblebrag; it’s more of a comment on what I referred to above, the fairness of a particular puzzle. But as I look at my completed grid, I think there’s only one entry that I had to resort to research to “get,” and it’s a short one, referred to in the title of the post. I was totally stumped by “orange ball.” I got FIVE on crosses and it didn’t occur to me until 3 a.m., or thereabouts, that Mr. McCarty meant the number on the orange ball in billiards. A memorably devious clue.I also really liked the clues for EDIT, BOTANY, RATED R and AROMA. I tend to think of a TASSEL as part of an ear of corn, but technically that’s on the stalk too, so it’s all good and tricky, and I did not know that the “Political Victory Fund” raised money for the NRA. 17A: The spelling here was a little confounding: AR TOO DE TOO (ARTOODETOO? I wouldn’t know how to break this little robot down) seems like he should have two TWOs in his name, for one, and then an R and a D. But this is established and how he’s been clued in the past. It was super cute of Mr. McCarty to run this nearly next to TOOTIE too.55A: This entry was also a first, and so were the other two in this small stack. It made me smile because UDON NOODLE soup has sustained me so well this winter — there are ramen spots popping up all over New York right now. I know ramen isn’t strictly udon, but you can get all types of noodles in these places, in hot broth with vegetables, and it feels very salubrious in the middle of winter. 10D: Car culture is funny; it’s very niche when it’s happening, but goes down in history as integral to the vibe of a whole era. The first thing I think of as typical of 1950s cars is their size, those big chubby Chevrolets and Dodges with whitewall tires, fins, bench seats (it helps that I was recently in Havana and saw dozens of these behemoths chugging through town). Nothing specific comes to mind today, and the answer, TWO TONE CAR, didn’t really either, which goes back to my earlier point. There is a growing number of modern models playing with color schemes, including Minis, Nissans, Toyotas and Volvos — it’s just not something I’ve ever really noticed.14D: I liked this entry; I’d only heard of these hard-boiled eggs as “marble eggs.” They’re strangely transfixing when viewed in a pile, as they appear sometimes as street food, but I’ve never actually tried them. You can make them at home.39D: This is an early week entry when commonly clued as “Lee Harvey ___” or something close to that. I had never heard of Mickey’s precursor, although I have seen cartoons featuring OSWALD the Lucky Rabbit — I’d just always thought that Mickey’s ears had evolved from straight and bunnyish to those little pompoms he has now, and that we’d always been dealing with a mouse. There’s an interesting back story to the rights to Oswald, which were lost back in the 1920s and then regained in 2006 by the Disney Company. I started this one by playing with a number of options at 32-Across and ended up with SCULPTED ABS working out best, and only then after running through a number of more normal options for 33-Down and ending up with the unusual C SCALE. I don’t love this answer as a musician because the scale itself is ambiguous (Major? Minor? Mixolydian?), but it helped pull together the middle. I originally had BAYONETTED for 29-Across before finding that it was more commonly spelled with one T in American English, so I ended up switching to BAYONETING and redoing the NE corner. Unfortunately, there weren’t as many stellar fill options here, so I threw in TEA EGG for some interest. I’m sure the critics will love it.Overall the editing team did a good job tempering my clues, some of which I’ll admit were a bit too difficult. I was sad to see a couple of my favorite clues go, including “One-man band?” for ID BRACELET, and “Public display of confection” for DESSERT CASE, but I’m glad they kept my unassuming clue for MEN. Hope you enjoy!Subscribers can take a peek at the answer key. AdvertisementSupported byBy Remy Tumin and Hiroko Masuike(Want to get this briefing by email? Here’s the sign-up.) Good evening. Here’s the latest.1. President Trump took his case for a wall to El Paso, where there is one.His rally was his first event along the border since a debate over funding a wall shut down the government. Negotiations to head off another shutdown appeared to be close to succeeding on Monday night.In a twist of political theater, Beto O’Rourke, below, a former Democratic congressman from El Paso and possible presidential candidate, spoke at a rally less than a mile from Mr. Trump’s.Ahead of the events, people across the political spectrum in El Paso had a message for the president: Don’t speak for us._____2. “Anti-Semitism is real and I am grateful for Jewish allies and colleagues who are educating me on the painful history of anti-Semitic tropes.”That was Representative Ilhan Omar, a freshman congresswoman from Minnesota, seen above two weeks ago. She had come under fire from Speaker Nancy Pelosi and the entire House Democratic leadership for insinuating on Twitter that American support for Israel was fueled by money from a pro-Israel lobbying group.She did not back away from her contention that the lobbying group, the American Israel Public Affairs Committee, has too much power in Washington. “At the same time, I reaffirm the problematic role of lobbyists in our politics, whether it be AIPAC, the NRA or the fossil fuel industry,” her statement said._____3. A Virginia Democrat’s push to begin impeachment proceedings against Lt. Gov. Justin Fairfax stalled after furious opposition from the party’s black caucus.They insist there not be a rush to oust Mr. Fairfax, who is black, over accusations of sexual assault while the state’s white governor and attorney general are refusing to resign after they admitted wearing blackface in their youth.Mr. Fairfax entered the legislative building around 11:30 a.m. this morning, made his way to the Senate chambers through a scrum of TV cameras, repeated that he had “called for an independent investigation,” adding: “I am still very confident in the truth.” And went to work, above._____4. Shrill, abrasive, aloof, unlikable.Some of the adjectives used to describe Hillary Clinton during her 2016 presidential campaign are now bubbling up in uncharted territory: a presidential race featuring six women running for the Democratic nomination.Few people admit they would hesitate to vote for a woman for president, but they don’t have to. We took a look at how sexism plays out on the campaign trail.And we have closer looks at two senators among the six: Amy Klobuchar of Minnesota, above, who joined the race Sunday, and Kamala Harris, whose record as a former district attorney and California attorney general faces a chorus of critics — especially on the left._____5. Assisting the doctor: A.I. In a new study, researchers from universities in the U.S. and China built a highly accurate system that could automatically diagnose common childhood conditions — including influenza and meningitis — after analyzing the patient’s symptoms, medical records, lab results and other clinical data.The system used a neural network, a breed of artificial intelligence, to digest the electronic health records from more than 1.3 million patient visits at a pediatric hospital in China. Above, doctors competed against A.I. computers to recognize illnesses during a competition in Beijing last year.Able to recognize patterns in data that humans could never identify on their own — and might not be able to understand — A.I. could assist doctors in diagnosing complex conditions, potentially transforming the health care industry and reducing the chances of misdiagnoses.In other A.I. news, President Trump signed an executive order meant to spur the development and regulation of artificial intelligence._____6. Brandi Carlile gave a thrilling performance. Drake showed up (though his acceptance speech got cut off). Alicia Keys was a laid-back host (and deftly played two pianos at once).We rounded up the best and worst of the Grammys, according to our music critics. At a ceremony dominated by female performers and presenters, Kacey Musgraves won album of the year for “Golden Hour,” as well as three other awards. Cardi B, above, became the first woman to win best rap album as a solo artist for “Invasion of Privacy.” Here’s the complete list of winners.From Cardi B on the half shell to Michelle Obama in a silver lounge suit and a barefoot Alicia Keys, women were front and center, our fashion critic writes. (The embedded slide show has all the red carpet looks.)This year’s award ceremony was perhaps as notable for who didn’t show up as who did, our pop music critic suggests._____7. The accusations against Уscar Arias Sбnchez, a former president of Costa Rica and Nobel laureate, are mounting. Above, Mr. Arias last month.Yazmнn Morales is one of at least nine women who have now come forward with accounts of sexual assault or misconduct.Telling her story was hard. Finding a lawyer to take the case was harder, revealing the social and political obstacles facing women in the region when they seek legal recourse, even in Latin America’s most significant #MeToo case.And our Interpreter column examines why the movement has made little headway in curbing abuses by ordinary men._____8. For New Yorkers who hate the subway, and anyone who likes to hate New York, this one’s for you.A portrait of subway hell in words and images, drawn from commuters’ tweets.Accessibility is a key issue. There are 550,000 New York residents who have difficulty walking. Our analysis found that two-thirds of them live far from an accessible subway station.And from Tokyo to Zurich, readers told us how New York’s subway compares with the public transportation in their cities (spoiler alert: not well)._____9. “It’s almost like heavenly visual music.”That’s Trond Trondsen of Calgary, an expert on the aurora borealis. He grew up in Norway fascinated by the mysterious light display, and he’s not alone. Seeing it has become a must for camera-toting international tourists, whether in Russia, Alaska, Greenland or Scandinavia.The sight can prove to be elusive, if ultimately rewarding, our writer found during a trip to northern Sweden, above. “It’s just a matter of waiting for the cosmic show,” she writes._____10. Finally, we end the day with some very good dogs.When we began digitizing six million photos in the Times archive, it quickly became apparent that while people and places changed, the dogs stayed very much the same, providing the kind of reliable delight they now deliver on Instagram scrolls. Above, a man and his dog driving down Fifth Avenue in New York in 1977.As the Westminster Kennel Club Dog Show kicks off, we assembled a panel of dog fans — from the Times staff to artists and animal trainers — to examine the everlasting obsession. “Dogs are just really pure,” one panelist said.Good luck to all the groups and breeds! We’ll see you Tuesday night when best in show is awarded.Have a winning night._____Your Evening Briefing is posted at 6 p.m. Eastern.And don’t miss Your Morning Briefing. Sign up here to get it by email in the Australian, Asian, European or American morning.Want to catch up on past briefings? You can browse them here.AdvertisementSupported byCRITIC’S pICKThe artist dances with wolves, and hunters, in his new film “Redoubt,” shot in his native Idaho. It’s the most emancipated work of his career. By Jason FaragoNEW HAVEN — Two parallel homecomings give shape to “Redoubt,” the much anticipated and unexpectedly nimble new project that Matthew Barney debuted here earlier this month. One is to Yale University, where Mr. Barney, class of 1989, began to merge ornery sculpture made with plastics and Vaseline with athletic performances and perplexing symbolism. Thirty years after graduating, the artist elected to present his newest project on the campus where he made his first mature work, in which the undergraduate would dangle from his studio walls or climb naked at Yale’s cathedral-like gym.The other homecoming is to central Idaho, where the artist grew up. As usual with Mr. Barney — whose epic “Cremaster” cycle (1994-2002) introduced a whole generation to the sexual potential of bees, rams, racecars and the Chrysler building — “Redoubt” combines sculptures, drawings and performances with a feature-length film that itself generates new artworks. Mr. Barney has filmed in Idaho before: The Busby Berkeley revue of “Cremaster 1” (1995) takes place on a blue Boise football field, while “River of Fundament” (2014), his six-hour noble failure of excrement-slicked reincarnation, features a poetic coda of salmon spawning in an Idaho river.But “Redoubt” is rooted, unlike those expansive works, in a single place: the remote, rugged Sawtooth Mountains, the landscape of Mr. Barney’s childhood. It also speaks more directly to contemporary American themes: the place of the gun, the fate of the environment and the fantasies and paranoias of those who turn their back on constitutional government and American society.Lighter, freer and a little more conventional than usual, it is Mr. Barney’s most engrossing film in over a decade. Mr. Barney appears only in a supporting role, and he now seems especially eager to embrace collaboration and improvisation, notably via dance, a fascinating addition to his cinematic techniques. It’s certainly less visually striking than the “Cremaster” cycle and “River of Fundament.” But I love the new, more open Mr. Barney of “Redoubt,” which the Yale University Art Gallery is screening on Saturday afternoons and at a few other times, alongside an exhibition of large bronze and brass sculptures and strange electroplated engravings inspired by the film. (The show travels afterward to Beijing, then London.)“Redoubt” has a cast of just six, and draws its structure partly from the tale in Ovid’s “Metamorphoses” of Diana, the chaste goddess of the hunt, and Actaeon, a doomed young hero who spies on her. Diana, here, is a hunter living off the grid in Idaho, attended by two dancing Virgins and clad in the military-grade camouflage favored by some anti-government types in the American west. (The film’s title alludes to American Redoubt, a far-right survivalist movement in the region.) We first see Diana crafting her own bullets out of the same bronze and brass Mr. Barney uses in his sculptures, against the awesome backdrop of Idaho’s snow-covered mountains. Diana is played by Anette Wachter, a world-champion sharpshooter who does her own marksmanship in the film; she is also a prolific gun blogger, and recently told the magazine NRA Family, “I can’t express how much I love being involved in the gun industry and culture.”Diana is hunting an elusive gray wolf, one of many returning to the Sawtooth Mountains after near-extinction, thanks to a federal government effort that drew strong opposition from the livestock industry, as well as hunters. The effort took place when Mr. Barney was a boy. Whatever its symbolic import in “Redoubt” (and Mr. Barney gives us plenty to work with, notably shots of the constellation Lupus), the wolf is also a living embodiment of the clash between Washington and anti-statist Idaho communities whose libertarianism comes in both mild and extremist strains. This project’s Diana is an American original, and hunts not as divine action but from political convictions.“Redoubt” tracks Diana and her two Virgins in search of their prey. (The cinematography is by Mr. Barney’s longtime collaborator Peter Strietmann, who pictures the mountains in a breathtaking palette of steely blues and grays, though he relies too much on drone shots that have already become travel-dad YouTube clichйs.) The only other human up in the mountains is an Engraver, played by Mr. Barney with a bushy white beard, who observes the women at a distance and etches their hunt on sheets of copper. His character is an artist, but also a federal employee: Note the United States Forest Service patch on his ski cap and green jacket.Each day, he drives to the trailer home of an Electroplater (played by K.J. Holmes, a renowned dance artist). She dunks his copper etchings in chemical baths, and, with the help of rudimentary batteries, coats them with a new metal crust. The etchings appear, transformed, in the exhibition here at Yale: pictures of Diana, of wolves and of the Idaho mountains that are encrusted with metal nodules and scorched in places after too long in the chemical bath.The show also includes a few larger-scale sculptures cast from fallen trees, which have much in common with the explosive bronze splashes made at the time of “River of Fundament” and seen at the Museum of Contemporary Art in Los Angeles. But it’s the electroplated etchings, sometimes daintily figurative and sometimes scarred into abstraction, that most fully express the aims of “Redoubt,” reflecting an artist seeking newer, freer shores. That freedom extends to another medium: dance. The revelation of “Redoubt” is Eleanor Bauer, who plays one of Diana’s two Virgins and choreographed the bulk of the film’s movement. (Like most of Mr. Barney’s films — except “River of Fundament,” in which Ms. Bauer also appears — this one has no dialogue.) She and Laura Stokes, playing the other Virgin, communicate through gesture and performance as they hunt. The women roll their legs over snow banks, writhe in a hammock and balance their weight against each other while bathing in a hot spring.  One even strings the other from a tree with climber’s rope, lifting her like a lupine carcass. In another dance sequence, Sandra Lamouche, a performer of the Bigstone Cree Nation, executes a hoop dance in an abandoned American Legion hall. Her brief appearance reaffirms that, where so much of Mr. Barney’s earlier work sought to disrupt binary understandings of identity, “Redoubt” is mostly focused on white bodies, and how white Americans live, colonize and kill in one of the continent’s most exquisite ecosystems.Ms. Bauer’s choreography draws heavily on Steve Paxton’s practice of contact improvisation, in which dancers respond to and anticipate each other’s motions. There are echoes, too, of Trish Brown’s gravity-defying dances with ropes and harnesses — especially when Ms. Bauer climbs a huge charred tree and splays her body horizontally. This stunning image of Ms. Bauer rigged in a climber’s harness, suspended hundreds of feet up in the Idaho air, has almost none of the mythopoetic baggage that weighed down “River of Fundament.” “Redoubt” plants itself in a place and time when the promises of democratic participation are unraveling, and where “prepper” fantasies of societal collapse intertwine with more justified fears of ecological degradation. And these more immediate concerns have produced a different sort of film, less awesome but more urgent, in which the bodies on screen find an unexpected freedom.This new work may therefore have less in common with “Cremaster” and “River of Fundament” than with the most primordial Barney works: his decades-long “Drawing Restraint” series, in which the artist draws on walls while dragging weights or while tethered by bungee cords. (The first of them took place in 1987, here at Yale.) It turns out that Ms. Bauer has also recently executed new phases of “Drawing Restraint,” at Mr. Barney’s invitation. In those works and this one, Mr. Barney seems to be forging a more emancipated kind of collaboration, more trusting that another body can replace his own.AdvertisementSupported byBy ReutersSYDNEY — Australia's nationalist One Nation party allegedly sought millions of dollars from the U.S. gun lobby and discussed weakening the country's strict gun control laws with the U.S. National Rifle Association, Al Jazeera reported.Posing as the head of a fake Australian pro-gun lobby, Al Jazeera secretly filmed top officials from Pauline Hanson's One Nation allegedly meeting NRA executives in Washington in 2018. The One Nation officials also discussed the possibility of raising A$20 million ($14.22 million) prior to a meeting with a U.S. gun lobby supporter, the report said.Concerned about foreign influence in Australian politics, particularly from China, the government introduced laws banning foreign political donations in November last year. The One Nation meetings took place in September."Reports that senior One Nation officials courted foreign political donations from the U.S. gun lobby to influence our elections and undermine our gun laws that keep us safe are deeply concerning," Australian Prime Minister Scott Morrison said in a post on Twitter on Tuesday.The two party representatives recorded in the Al Jazeera report, chief of staff James Ashby and Queensland state leader Steve Dickson, confirmed they attended the meetings but denied accepting a donation from the NRA."These conversations with the NRA were to look at nothing more than their (campaign) techniques," Ashby told reporters in Brisbane. "This was not about sourcing money from the NRA."NRA spokesman Andrew Arulanandam referred questions about Al Jazeera's report to the group's lobbying arm, the NRA Institute for Legislative Action. NRA-ILA spokeswoman Jennifer Baker said the group had no comment on the report.Australia has some of the world's strictest firearm laws, implemented after a lone gunman killed 35 people at Port Arthur on the island state of Tasmania in 1996.Australia banned semi-automatic weapons, launched a firearm buy-back scheme after the massacre, and imposed strict licensing rules which require weapons to be locked up when not in use.The role of One Nation in promoting right-wing nationalism in Australia has come under the spotlight in recent days following the killing of 50 Muslims in New Zealand earlier in March, allegedly by an Australian white supremacist. Al Jazeera said on its website the report was three years in the making.In the report, Ashby and Dickson can be heard allegedly telling NRA officials that with their help, the party could win enough seats to gain the balance of power in Australia's upper house of parliament."We get the balance of power, very simply that means that we have the testicles of the government in our hand at every given stage," says Dickson. "Guns, in the scheme of things, are still going to be the be-all and end-all."In another meeting with a U.S. gun lobby supporter, Dickson says: "It's going to get down to money at the end of the day. We can change the voting system in our country, the way people operate, if we've got the money to do it."The footage allegedly records an NRA lobbyist telling both Dickson and Ashby that it would benefit the U.S. pro-gun movement if Australia's gun laws were relaxed."That helps us because the biggest argument we get from folks is, 'Well, look at Australia,'" he says.In an emailed statement to Reuters, Ashby described the recordings as "skullduggery" and said he had referred the matter to the Australian Security Intelligence Organisation and the Australian Federal Police over concerns of foreign political interference in the lead-up to a federal election in May.Al Jazeera is Qatar's state-owned broadcaster. The head of its investigative unit who reported the segment, Peter Charley, said the allegation he was acting on behalf of a foreign government were "risible.""We're journalists doing a job," Charley told Reuters by telephone. "The original intention was to infiltrate the NRA. It was only quite late in the game that One Nation came into the frame."Nationalists have struggled to gain a significant voting bloc in Australia's parliament, although One Nation did wield considerable influence in the upper house between 2016 and 2018.The party fractured last year with several resignations, but it is hoping to regroup at the coming national election, with its support base being largely rural voters disillusioned with the major parties which they accuse of being city-focused. AdvertisementSupported byBy The Associated PressCANBERRA, Australia — Australia's prime minister on Tuesday accused an influential minor political party of trying to "sell Australia's gun laws to the highest bidders" by asking the U.S. gun lobby for donations.Prime Minister Scott Morrison was responding to an Al Jazeera documentary that reported One Nation party officials Steve Dickson and James Ashby flew to the United States for meetings with pro-gun interests including the National Rifle Association and political donors Koch Industries in September last year seeking money to undermine Australian gun laws.Dickson and Ashby later told reporters that they had not secured any U.S. money. They also said they had been quoted by Al Jazeera out of context and often after drinking.The trip took place weeks before the Australian Parliament banned foreign political donations with laws that took effect Jan. 1.Morrison said the revelations were reasons why Australians should not vote for One Nation at general elections due in May."We have reports that One Nation officials basically sought to sell Australia's gun laws to the highest bidders to a foreign buyer and I find that abhorrent," Morrison said.Morrison said his government had made laws to "criminalize taking foreign political donations so foreign lobbyists cannot seek to influence our politics."Opposition leader Bill Shorten, whom opinion polls suggest will be prime minister after the election, accused One Nation of a "betrayal of the Australian political system.""The idea of One National political party operatives going to the United States, seeking millions of dollars, promising to water-down gun law protection in Australia — that was absolutely horrifying," Shorten said.The Al Jazeera documentary used secret recordings made by a journalist posing as gun lobbyist Rodger Muller with a hidden camera.One Nation, an anti-Muslim party that had four senators after 2016 election but has been left with two after defections, said in a statement that all party members "have always complied with the law."One Nation also suggested the Qatar-owned Al Jazeera had breached new laws that prohibit covert foreign interference in Australian politics. The party said it had had complained to Australia's main domestic security agency and police "due to concerns of foreign interference into Australian politics in the lead up to the imminent federal election.""Al Jazeera are a state owned propaganda arm of the Qatari government that supports Islamic extremist groups and are not a legitimate media organization," the statement said."One Nation was invited by Rodger Muller, who has now been outed as a foreign agent working for Al Jazeera to meet with the NRA, American business leaders and attend the Congressional Sportsmen's Dinner" in Washington, the statement said.The NRA in a statement late Tuesday said Al Jazeera representatives, disguised as members of a group called "Gun Rights Australia," had set up meetings with NRA employees and brought Australian political party members to those meetings. "At no time did the NRA contribute funding to any Australian political party or Gun Rights Australia," NRA spokeswoman Jennifer Baker said in the statement.Ashby, who is party leader Pauline Hanson's chief of staff, is recorded saying that the party would "own" both the Australian Senate and House of Representatives with a $20 million donation from the U.S. gun lobby. This means the party would hold the balance of power in both chambers and influence a government's legislative agenda.Ashby also warned that if such a donation became public, it would "rock the boat."He told reporters on Tuesday that the U.S. trip had been a fact-finding mission to learn campaign tactics."These conversations with the NRA were to look at nothing more than their techniques. This was not about sourcing money from the NRA. This was about sourcing technology, sourcing an understanding of how they operate, but never was it about seeking $20 million dollars from the NRA," Ashby told reporters.The news followed the mosque attacks in New Zealand on March 15 for which an Australian white supremacist has been charged with murder. New Zealand has responded by banning a range of semi-automatic weapons and foreshadowing a government-funded buyback of newly outlawed guns. The country's response is similar to how Australia strengthened its gun laws following the murders of 35 people by a lone gunman in 1996 in Tasmania.One Nation state president Steve Dickson, who is a Senate candidate at the next election, traveled with Ashby and Muller to the United States to ask for political donations, Al Jazeera reported.Dickon told NRA officials that the Australian gun control model "will poison us all, unless we stop it," Al Jazeera reported.Dickson told reporters on Tuesday he supported Australia's gun laws. He said had not solicited donations in the United States, but conceded his party was not wealthy."I will tell you the absolute, humble truth. When I was asked: 'Do we need money to run election campaigns?' I said: 'Yes,'" Dickson told reporters.A former One Nation senator who is now an independent lawmaker, Fraser Anning, has been widely criticized for blaming Muslim immigration for the New Zealand massacre.Hanson, One Nation's leader who was criticized for wearing a burqa in the Senate, voted for the ban on foreign donations in November.AdvertisementSupported byBy The Associated PressCANBERRA, Australia — Australia's prime minister has accused an influential minor political party of trying to "sell Australia's gun laws to the highest bidders" by asking the U.S. gun lobby for donations.Prime Minister Scott Morrison was responding to an Al Jazeera documentary that reported One Nation party officials Steve Dickson and James Ashby flew to the United States for meetings with pro-gun interests including the National Rifle Association and political donors Koch Industries in September last year seeking money to undermine Australian gun laws.Dickson and Ashby later told reporters that they had not secured any U.S. money. They also said they had been quoted by Al Jazeera out of context and often after drinking.The trip took place weeks before the Australian Parliament banned foreign political donations with laws that took effect Jan. 1.Morrison said the revelations were reasons why Australians should not vote for One Nation at general elections due in May."We have reports that One Nation officials basically sought to sell Australia's gun laws to the highest bidders to a foreign buyer and I find that abhorrent," Morrison said Tuesday.Morrison said his government had made laws to "criminalize taking foreign political donations so foreign lobbyists cannot seek to influence our politics."Opposition leader Bill Shorten, whom opinion polls suggest will be prime minister after the election, accused One Nation of a "betrayal of the Australian political system.""The idea of One National political party operatives going to the United States, seeking millions of dollars, promising to water-down gun law protection in Australia — that was absolutely horrifying," Shorten said.The Al Jazeera documentary used secret recordings made by a journalist posing as gun lobbyist Rodger Muller with a hidden camera.One Nation, an anti-Muslim party that had four senators after 2016 election but has been left with two after defections, said in a statement that all party members "have always complied with the law."One Nation also suggested the Qatar-owned Al Jazeera had breached new laws that prohibit covert foreign interference in Australian politics. The party said it had had complained to Australia's main domestic security agency and police "due to concerns of foreign interference into Australian politics in the lead up to the imminent federal election.""Al Jazeera are a state-owned propaganda arm of the Qatari government that supports Islamic extremist groups and are not a legitimate media organization," the statement said."One Nation was invited by Rodger Muller, who has now been outed as a foreign agent working for Al Jazeera to meet with the NRA, American business leaders and attend the Congressional Sportsmen's Dinner" in Washington, the statement said.Al Jazeera said it stood by its reporting and that its journalists "adhere to the highest standards of professionalism and objectivity.""The suggestion that our staff is involved in espionage is both unfounded and, quite frankly, farcical," it said in a statement. It said it provided One Nation and its leaders "with an opportunity to comment on our evidence prior to broadcast but they declined to do so."The NRA in a statement late Tuesday said Al Jazeera representatives, disguised as members of a group called "Gun Rights Australia," had set up meetings with NRA employees and brought Australian political party members to those meetings. "At no time did the NRA contribute funding to any Australian political party or Gun Rights Australia," NRA spokeswoman Jennifer Baker said in the statement.Ashby, who is party leader Pauline Hanson's chief of staff, is recorded saying that the party would "own" both the Australian Senate and House of Representatives with a $20 million donation from the U.S. gun lobby. This means the party would hold the balance of power in both chambers and influence a government's legislative agenda.Ashby also warned that if such a donation became public, it would "rock the boat."He told reporters on Tuesday that the U.S. trip had been a fact-finding mission to learn campaign tactics."These conversations with the NRA were to look at nothing more than their techniques. This was not about sourcing money from the NRA. This was about sourcing technology, sourcing an understanding of how they operate, but never was it about seeking $20 million dollars from the NRA," Ashby told reporters.The news followed the mosque attacks in New Zealand on March 15 for which an Australian white supremacist has been charged with murder. New Zealand has responded by banning a range of semi-automatic weapons and foreshadowing a government-funded buyback of newly outlawed guns. The country's response is similar to how Australia strengthened its gun laws following the murders of 35 people by a lone gunman in 1996 in Tasmania.One Nation state president Steve Dickson, who is a Senate candidate at the next election, traveled with Ashby and Muller to the United States to ask for political donations, Al Jazeera reported.Dickon told NRA officials that the Australian gun control model "will poison us all, unless we stop it," Al Jazeera reported.Dickson told reporters on Tuesday he supported Australia's gun laws. He said had not solicited donations in the United States, but conceded his party was not wealthy."I will tell you the absolute, humble truth. When I was asked: 'Do we need money to run election campaigns?' I said: 'Yes,'" Dickson told reporters.A former One Nation senator who is now an independent lawmaker, Fraser Anning, has been widely criticized for blaming Muslim immigration for the New Zealand massacre.Hanson, One Nation's leader who was criticized for wearing a burqa in the Senate, voted for the ban on foreign donations in November.AdvertisementSupported byBy ReutersSYDNEY — Australia's nationalist One Nation party allegedly sought millions of dollars from the U.S. gun lobby and discussed weakening the country's strict gun control laws with the U.S. National Rifle Association (NRA), Al Jazeera reported.Posing as the head of a fake Australian pro-gun lobby, Al Jazeera secretly filmed top officials from Pauline Hanson's One Nation allegedly meeting NRA executives in Washington in 2018. It also reported the One Nation officials discussing the possibility of raising A$20 million ($14.22 million) prior to a meeting with a U.S. gun lobby supporter.Concerned about foreign influence in Australian politics, particularly from China, the government introduced laws banning foreign political donations in November last year. The One Nation meetings took place in September."Reports that senior One Nation officials courted foreign political donations from the U.S. gun lobby to influence our elections and undermine our gun laws that keep us safe are deeply concerning," Australian Prime Minister Scott Morrison Tweeted on Tuesday.One Nation confirmed in a statement their two representatives attended the meetings, but there was no evidence in the Al Jazeera TV report, aired late on Monday, that a donation was made.Calls and emails to the NRA headquarters in Virginia were not immediately returned.Australia has some of the world's strictest firearm laws, implemented after a lone gunman killed 35 people at Port Arthur on the island state of Tasmania in 1996.Australia banned semi-automatic weapons, launched a firearm buy-back scheme after the massacre, and imposed strict licensing rules which require weapons to be locked up when not in use.Al Jazeera said the report was three years in the making.In the report, One Nation's chief-of-staff James Ashby and Queensland state leader Steve Dickson can be seen allegedly telling NRA officials that with its help the party could win enough seats to gain the balance of power in Australia's upper house of parliament."We get the balance of power, very simply that means that we have the testicles of the government in our hand at every given stage," says Dickson. "Guns, in the scheme of things, are still going to be the be-all and end-all."In another meeting with a U.S. gun lobby supporter, Dickson says: "It's going to get down to money at the end of the day. We can change the voting system in our country, the way people operate, if we've got the money to do it."Ashby confirmed One Nation had been invited to attend the meetings but he accused Al Jazeera of interfering in Australia's looming national election, due in May."The matter has been referred to ASIO (the Australian Security Intelligence Organisation) and the Australian Federal Police due to concerns of foreign interference into Australian politics in the lead-up to the imminent federal election," Ashby said in the emailed statement.The footage allegedly records an NRA lobbyist telling both Dickson and Ashby that it would benefit the U.S. pro-gun movement if Australia's gun laws were relaxed."That helps us because the biggest argument we get from folks is, 'Well look at Australia'," he says.The role of One Nation in promoting right-wing nationalism in Australia has come under the spotlight in recent days following the killing of 50 Muslims in New Zealand, allegedly by an Australian white supremacist.Nationalists have struggled to gain a significant voting bloc in Australia's parliament, although One Nation did wield considerable influence in the upper house between 2016 and 2018.AdvertisementSupported byLetter 100By Isabella KwaiThis is our 100th Australia Letter. Thanks for reading and subscribing! For our next 100, we’ll be drawing in new writers and new approaches. Sign up to get it by email and tell us what you think: nytaustralia@nytimes.com.___In 2015, Al-Jazeera’s Investigative Unit had a question: what did the National Rifle Association say about mass shootings behind closed doors?To answer it, they planned a lengthy undercover investigation, in which a reporter posed as an Australian gun lobbyist to infiltrate meetings with the NRA and with One Nation, a far-right, anti-immigration party.The result, released in a two part documentary that aired on the Australian Broadcasting Corporation, is — at the very least — compelling.In hidden camera footage shot during a trip to the United States last year, senior figures from One Nation are heard discussing the influence a donation from the American gun lobby could buy in the Australia’s parliament. The cameras also captured advice from the NRA on how to respond to mass shootings and sway public opinion toward gun ownership.Australia has some of the toughest gun laws in the world, and the country is proud of it. So news that a political party’s officials were willing to soften the rules for foreign donations were met with alarm.Since then, Pauline Hanson, the party’s leader, has said the comments were taken out of context — she called Al-Jazeera an “Islamist” organization and a “Middle Eastern foreign agent.” But she also attacked the report’s ethics, calling it an “illegal, covert operation.”Was she at least a little bit right?There are of course many well-known accounts of undercover journalism and like many people, I’ve read them with interest, from Gloria Steinem’s infiltration of Playboy Clubs to Shane Bauer’s stint as an American prison guard.It’s one solution to a challenge all reporters think about: How do you get the information you need from those who don’t want to share?I spoke to two professors about Al-Jazeera’s report, and also asked The New York Times’s standards editor, Phil Corbett, for his views.Phil made clear that according to the Times ethics guide, staff members “should disclose their identity to people they cover” and “may not record conversations without the prior consent of all parties to the conversations.”Exceptions involving sustained deception have been extremely rare, he said.“Overall, we think, this is the best way to insure both fairness to our subjects and credibility with our readers.”That being said, he added, “we recognize that other news organizations have sometimes taken different approaches, and there is a long history of undercover reporting that unearthed important information.”The two professors I interviewed both argued that the story’s main discovery — that an Australian political party was aligning themselves with a controversial lobby group to potentially change policy — was clearly in the public interest.But they also agreed that there were two key areas that raise questions and concerns: The use of hidden cameras and the fact that an undercover reporter became a part of the story.One justification is that the documentary was transparent about its methods, said Andrew Dodd, director for the Centre for Advancing Journalism at the University of Melbourne.“The audience is fully aware of the artifice that was created,” he said. “The audience is therefore able to make an informed decision about what they’re watching.”But to go undercover for so long on this scale is not considered normal reporting “in any way, shape or form,” he added. “This should be a last resort. This has to remain extraordinary journalism that is practiced rarely and only for the very best reasons.”That reason would be to bring truths to the public that would not ever reach them otherwise, he said.He pointed to one moment in the documentary when the NRA discusses their social media strategy after shootings. “You see a glimpse of truth in that moment that you couldn’t get in a two hour debate,” he said.But Peter Greste, a former journalist for Al-Jazeera, now a professor at the University of Queensland, said the story crossed a line in having a reporter broker the meeting between the One Nation party and the NRA.“We are supposed to be observers to the news, not participants,” he said. “It’s inappropriate for journalists to become parts of the story the way they clearly did in this case.”While the findings are “distasteful,” the party was not doing anything illegal, he added.What also raises concerns is the party’s decision to refer Al-Jazeera to the federal police force and Australia’s national security agency, which Mr. Greste called a “dangerous precedent” — the consequences of which he is intimately familiar with.While working for Al-Jazeera in Cairo in 2013, Mr. Greste was arrested and detained by the Egyptian government for terrorism offences. “What happened to us in Egypt was the government using national security to effectively silence the press.”Given the cynicism toward journalism these days, he said, upholding the role of the impartial watchdog to gain public trust is more important than ever: “When you let ethical standards slip then I think we do damage to that support.”So where do you stand on this? How important is ethical reporting to you in the pursuit of stories in the public interest? Shoot us an email at nytaustralia@nytimes.com or join our NYT Australia Facebook group where we’ll be discussing this in detail.Now, onto a selection of the best Times stories of the week!___This week, we continue reporting on Christchurch and bring you a Netflix guide.• Prosecutors Accuse Australian Journalists of Violating Gag Order on Cardinal’s Trial: The journalists could face fines and possibly prison time over the allegations, which stem from Cardinal George Pell’s trial and conviction on sexual abuse charges.• 10 Days After Christchurch Shootings, Jacinda Ardern Announces a Trip to China: The announcement signaled a shift after signs of growing tensions between the two countries.• Mourners Honor Dead With Call To Prayer in Christchurch: “This terrorist sought to tear our nation apart with an evil ideology that has torn the world apart — but instead we have shown that New Zealand is unbreakable,” said one imam.• ‘This Egg Has United People,’ Teenager Says of Protest Against Bigotry: 17-year-old Will Connolly broke his silence on egg-actly what happened and his reaction to his newfound fame. (I had to.)• ’10 Things I Hate About You,’ When Heath Ledger Was Just Breaking Through: An interview with the cast, screenwriters and director of the late 90s rom-com classic.• The Best Movies and TV Shows New to Netflix Australia in April: Making Netflix choices just too easy for you.___Last Friday, Attorney General William P. Barr told congressional leaders that the special counsel, Robert S. Mueller III, has concluded his inquiry into Russian interference in the 2016 election.The investigation found that neither President Trump nor any of his aides conspired with the Russian government, but did not draw conclusions on any obstruction of justice. To catch up on the highlights, read our live briefing here. You can also read a summary of the report here.___Four of our most popular stories of the week.• Adventurous, Alone, Attacked: The number of female solo travelers has skyrocketed, but amid Instagram-worthy escapades are tales of violence and death, raising questions about how the world is greeting women who travel alone.• The Daily Miracle: Finding Magic Inside The Times’s Printing Plant: The photographer Christopher Payne spent two years shooting The Times’s printing plant in College Point, Queens. He captured the craft, precision, and unexpected beauty of the newspaper printing process.• ‘Dog Suicide Bridge’: Why Do So Many Pets Keep Leaping Into a Scottish Gorge?: Scots insist that hundreds of dogs have been mysteriously compelled to throw themselves off a stone bridge.AdvertisementSupported byBy The Associated PressThe Latest on the 2020 campaign season (all times Eastern):7:40 p.m.Democratic presidential candidates are making it clear that there are new voices competing for voters' attention.California Sen. Kamala Harris sent a signal to the nation's old-guard that there's a time to move aside. At an Atlanta church service Sunday dedicated to youth, the presidential candidate compared leadership to a relay race in which older leaders must ask themselves and decide "when to pass the baton."Sen. Kirsten Gillibrand made her official announcement in front of the Trump International Hotel and Tower in New York and called him a coward who "punches down." Sen. Elizabeth Warren told a New Hampshire crowd that the NRA is holding Congress hostage on gun laws.___6:40 p.m.Howard Schultz will attend the annual conference of the American Israel Public Affairs Committee on Monday evening. That from Schultz aide Erin McPike.Schultz's decision to attend the annual AIPAC conference in Washington comes as Democrats have been grappling with the left's criticism of Israel and as most presidential candidates are sitting this year's conference out. Schultz is actively considering an independent presidential bid himself.On Friday, Schultz responded to a tweet from the liberal advocacy group MoveOn, which has been urging Democratic presidential candidates not to attend. He said that the "unwillingness of the far left to even speak with people they may disagree with is one of the worst symbols of the dysfunction in Washington today."___2:30 p.m.Sen. Elizabeth Warren says the National Rifle Association is holding "Congress hostage" when it comes to stemming gun violence.The Massachusetts senator and Democratic presidential candidate tells a campaign rally that if seven children were dying from a mysterious virus, "we'd pull out all the stops till we figured out what was wrong." But in terms of gun violence, she says the NRA "keeps calling the shots in Washington."Warren finished a two-day campaign trip to New Hampshire with an event at middle school in Conway Sunday afternoon.Warren focused much of her speech on her approach to economics, but paid special attention to unions Sunday. She says more power needs to be put back in the hands of workers.___1:50 p.m.California Sen. Kamala Harris may be dropping a hint on what she thinks about former Vice President Joe Biden, who is considering a third bid for the White House.At an Atlanta church service Sunday, Harris compared leadership to a relay race in which each generation must ask themselves "what do we do during that period of time when we carry that baton."Then she added with a smile that for "the older leaders, it also becomes a question of let's also know when to pass the baton."Harris is 54 years old. Biden is 76, and some of his supporters have said he's aware that his age could be a political liability in the Democratic primary. He wouldn't be the oldest contender, though. Vermont Sen. Bernie Sanders is 77.___1:40 p.m.Democratic presidential candidate Kirsten Gillibrand is assailing President Donald Trump as a coward who is "tearing apart the moral fabric of the vulnerable."The senator is speaking in New York, feet away from one of Trump's signature properties, the Trump International Hotel and Tower.She says that instead of building walls as Trump wants to do along the U.S.-Mexico border, Americans build bridges, community and hope.Gillibrand also called for full release of special counsel Robert Mueller's report in the Russia investigation. Attorney General William Barr was expected to release a summary of principal conclusions, but Democrats want to see the full details.Gillibrand is trying to position herself in the crowded field of Democrats seeking the party's nomination. While some hopefuls have shied away from mentioning Trump, Gillibrand has not hesitated to do so.___1:25 p.m.Democratic presidential candidate Beto O'Rourke is telling voters in Las Vegas that President Donald Trump bears blame for the separation of families at the U.S.-Mexico border but responsibility lies with everyone in the country to fix the situation.O'Rourke spoke Sunday to more than 200 people packed into and snaking around a taco shop on the city's north end. He says immigrant families are leaving their home countries and journeying on foot because they have no other choice.The former Texas congressman says desperate families were broken up in the U.S. when they were at their most vulnerable and desperate moments, and what happened to them "is on every single one of us."___9 a.m.As New York Sen. Kirsten Gillibrand officially kicks off her Democratic presidential campaign in New York City, her rivals are courting voters in early primary states.Several Democratic White House hopefuls are campaigning Sunday, the day the Justice Department is expected to release key findings from special counsel Robert Mueller's confidential report on the Russia investigation.Vermont Sen. Bernie Sanders continues his California swing with a trip to San Francisco.AdvertisementSupported byBy The Associated PressSACRAMENTO, Calif. — It appears the shipment of high-capacity ammunition magazines into California has started for the first time in nearly two decades after a judge tossed out a ban on sales and purchases of the items, the state attorney general said Tuesday.Attorney General Xavier Becerra asked a federal judge to delay implementing the ruling while he appeals it.U.S. District Judge Roger Benitez in San Diego said Friday that a law that bans possessing, buying or selling any magazines holding more than 10 bullets infringes on the Second Amendment right to bear arms.With the ban lifted, even temporarily, Becerra said in a court filing that "there is evidence that sales have begun already."His office cited a Facebook ad from an out-of-state, online dealer saying it will ship the large-capacity magazines to California. The ad urged buyers to be patient because of an expected increase in orders."We are getting prepared to send a whole lot of freedom to our friends in California," reads the post from South Carolina-based Palmetto State Armory. The company did not immediately respond to telephone and email messages.Chuck Michel, an attorney for the NRA and the California Rifle & Pistol Association who filed the lawsuit that led to the ruling, agreed with Becerra that it allows individuals to legally acquire high-capacity magazines."There's dealers advertising them now and there are chat rooms where people are discussing buying them and we're getting calls from dealers asking what's legal to acquire," Michel said."The gray area is, what will the status of these magazines acquired during this window be if the stay is reinstated?" Michel said.If the 9th U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals reinstates the ban and a 2016 law outlawing possession, Michel said, buyers could be legally required to give up their newly acquired high-capacity magazines.However, Becerra warned in his court filing that it would be difficult for the state to remove the magazines, even if the ban is reinstated.Becerra said in a statement that California leads the nation when it comes to gun safety and refuses to go backward.AdvertisementSupported byBy ReutersDENVER — The Colorado legislature on Monday passed a "red flag" bill that would allow those deemed a threat to have their firearms seized, despite opposition by most of the state’s sheriffs and threats of legal challenges.Both chambers of the Democratic-controlled General Assembly approved the measure, sending it to the desk of Governor Jared Polis, also a Democrat, who has indicated his support for the measure.If signed into law, Colorado would become the 15th state to enact similar legislation, also called Extreme Risk Protection Orders, according to a statement from statehouse Democrats.Under the legislation, a family member or law enforcement officer could petition a judge to seize firearms from a person they think is a threat to themselves or others. The judge could then hold a hearing without the targeted person being present and grant a temporary order for 14 days.After the two-week order, both the petitioner and the gun owner could then try to persuade a judge why the firearms should or should not be returned.About 50 of the state’s 62 elected sheriffs oppose the measure, according to Weld County Sheriff Steve Reams, who told Reuters he would not enforce the law because it could put his deputies at risk if they raid a home without prior notice.'UNCHALLENGED STATEMENTS'The Second Amendment to the U.S. Constitution guarantees citizens the right to keep and bear arms. Opponents say the Colorado measure goes too far because it does not allow for a person to be heard in court before a judge issues a gun removal order.“Unchallenged statements made by a petitioner before a judge ... would be sufficient for law enforcement to enter that person’s home and confiscate their private property,” the National Rifle Association (NRA) said in a statement.One of the proposal’s sponsors, House Rep. Tom Sullivan, said he ran for elected office after his son Alex was killed in a mass shooting at a Colorado movie theater in 2012.“This bill will give law enforcement and families the tools that they need to stop tragedies from constantly happening and save lives," said Sullivan, a Democrat.The board of commissioners in heavily-Republican El Paso County passed a resolution last month vowing to "actively resist" the law, including taking legal action, if it is enacted.AdvertisementSupported byBy ReutersWASHINGTON — Maria Butina, who has admitted to working as a Russian agent to infiltrate an influential gun rights group and make inroads with U.S. conservative activists and Republicans, will be sentenced on April 26, U.S. District Judge Tanya Chutkan said on Thursday.Butina, a former graduate student at American University who publicly advocated for gun rights, pleaded guilty in December to one count of conspiring to act as a foreign agent for Russia. She has remained in custody since her arrest in July 2018.The 30-year-old native of Siberia wore a green jail jump suit during the brief hearing in Washington, but said nothing.Chutkan said during the hearing that sentencing memos from prosecutors and Butina's defense team will be due a week before the sentencing date. Prosecutors and defense lawyers approached the bench for a discussion with the judge, but the subject of those talks was not made public.Butina has admitted to conspiring with a Russian official and two Americans from 2015 until her arrest to infiltrate the National Rifle Association and create unofficial lines of communication to try to make Washington's policy toward Moscow more friendly. The NRA is closely aligned with U.S. conservatives and Republican politicians including President Donald Trump.Chutkan in February had delayed the sentencing at the request of prosecutors, who said Butina was cooperating in their ongoing investigation. Butina's attorney, Robert Driscoll, said at the time his client was ready for sentencing.Russia in December accused the United States of forcing Butina to falsely confess to what it described as the "absolutely ridiculous charges" of her being a Russian agent.Court records have pointed to the involvement of several others with Butina's actions including Paul Erickson, a conservative political activist with deep Republican ties who was romantically linked to her. Erickson is referred to as "Person 1" court records, which stated that he helped advise her on which American politicians to target for meetings.Erickson's attorney William Hurd declined to comment.Federal prosecutors in South Dakota have charged Erickson with 11 counts of wire fraud and money laundering unrelated to the case against Butina. Erickson's indictment appeared to make references to her when it said he made a payment of $8,000 to an "M.B." in June 2015 and another payment of $1,000 to "M.B." in March 2017, as well as more than $20,000 to American University in June 2017.Alexander Torshin, who was a deputy governor of Russia's central bank, has been identified as the Russian official involved in Butina's case. AdvertisementSupported byBy The Associated PressSACRAMENTO, Calif. — High-capacity gun magazines will remain legal in California under a ruling Friday by a federal judge who cited home invasions where a woman used the extra bullets in her weapon to kill an attacker while in two other cases women without additional ammunition ran out of bullets."Individual liberty and freedom are not outmoded concepts," San Diego-based U.S. District Judge Roger Benitez wrote as he declared unconstitutional the law that would have banned possessing any magazines holding more than 10 bullets.California law has prohibited buying or selling such magazines since 2000, but those who had them before then were allowed to keep them.In 2016, the Legislature and voters approved a law removing that provision. The California arm of the National Rifle Association sued and Benitez sided with the group's argument that banning the magazines infringes on the Second Amendment right to bear arms.Benitez had temporarily blocked the law from taking effect with a 2017 ruling.Chuck Michel, an attorney for the NRA and the California Rifle & Pistol Association, said the judge's latest ruling may go much farther by striking down the entire ban, allowing individuals to legally acquire high-capacity magazines for the first time in nearly two decades."We're still digesting the opinion but it appears to us that he struck down both the latest ban on possessing by those who are grandfathered in, but also said that everyone has a right to acquire one," Michel said.Attorney General Xavier Becerra said in a statement that his office is "committed to defending California's common sense gun laws" and is reviewing the decision and evaluating its next steps.The goal of the California law is to deter mass-shootings, with Becerra previously listing as an example the terrorist assault that killed 14 and injured 22 in San Bernardino.Benitez, an appointee of Republican President George W. Bush, called such shootings "exceedingly rare" while emphasizing the everyday robberies, rapes and murders he said might be countered with firearms.The Giffords Law Center to Prevent Gun Violence, named after a former congresswoman who survived a mass shooting, is also still evaluating whether the decision applies more broadly, said staff attorney Ari Freilich.But Freilich predicted the "extreme outlier decision" will be overturned on appeal and criticized a judge "so deeply out of touch that he believes mass shootings are a 'very small' problem in this country."Becerra previously said similar Second Amendment challenges have been repeatedly rejected by other courts, with at least seven other states and 11 local governments already restricting the possession or sale of large-capacity magazines. The conflicting decisions may ultimately be sorted out by the U.S. Supreme Court.Benitez ruled that magazines holding more than 10 rounds are "arms" under the U.S. Constitution, and that the California law "burdens the core of the Second Amendment by criminalizing the acquisition and possession of these magazines that are commonly held by law-abiding citizens for defense of self, home, and state."Benitez described three home invasions, two of which ended with the female victims running out of bullets.In the third case, the pajama-clad woman with a high-capacity magazine took on three armed intruders, firing at them while simultaneously calling for help on her phone."She had no place to carry an extra magazine and no way to reload because her left hand held the phone with which she was still trying to call 911," the judge wrote, saying she killed one attacker while two escaped.The magazine ban was included in 2016 legislation that voters strengthened with their approval of Proposition 63, which was championed by then-Lt. Gov. Gavin Newsom.AdvertisementSupported byBy The Associated PressATLANTA — California Sen. Kamala Harris sent a subtle signal to the old-guard of Democratic politics that every era has its end.At an Atlanta church service dedicated to youth Sunday, the presidential candidate compared leadership to a relay race in which each generation must ask themselves "what do we do during that period of time when we carry that baton."Then she added with a smile that for "the older leaders, it also becomes a question of let's also know when to pass the baton."The 54-year-old senator — one of the younger contenders for the White House in 2020 — did not mention any other presidential hopeful or tie her remarks to the Democratic presidential scramble. Her spokeswoman said she only wanted to encourage the youth at Ebenezer Baptist Church.Her commentary to the congregation once led by Martin Luther King Jr. comes as former Vice President Joe Biden, 76, considers whether to join a field that already includes Vermont Sen. Bernie Sanders, who is 77. Both men have run for president before and fallen short.'Biden and Sanders are seen as strong contenders for the Democratic nomination, though other candidates and some voters have emphasized the need for a more youthful approach to try and beat President Donald Trump in the general election. Several other candidates in the race, including two governors, are also in their late sixties.Harris noted Sunday that King was 26 when he led the Montgomery Bus Boycotts that pushed him to the forefront of the civil rights movement.Later Sunday, Harris told a rally at Morehouse College in Atlanta that Attorney General William Barr should testify under oath on Capitol Hill, rather than just submit the written summary of special counsel Robert Mueller's report on the Russia investigation.The Justice Department said Sunday that Mueller's team did not find evidence that Trump's campaign "conspired or coordinated" with Russia to influence the 2016 presidential election. Mueller also investigated whether Trump obstructed justice but did not come to a definitive answer.Other highlights of Sunday campaigning:KIRSTEN GILLIBRANDDemocratic presidential candidate Kirsten Gillibrand assailed President Donald Trump as a coward who is "tearing apart the moral fabric of the vulnerable," as she officially started her campaign for president.The senator spoke in New York Sunday, feet away from one of Trump's signature properties, the Trump International Hotel and Tower.She said that instead of building walls as Trump wants to do along the U.S.-Mexico border, Americans build bridges, community and hope.Gillibrand also called for full release of Mueller's report in the Russia investigation. Attorney General William Barr released a summary Sunday afternoon, but Democrats want to see the full details.Gillibrand is trying to position herself in the crowded field of Democrats seeking the party's nomination. While some hopefuls have shied away from mentioning Trump, Gillibrand has not hesitated to do so.ELIZABETH WARRENSen. Elizabeth Warren said Sunday the National Rifle Association is holding "Congress hostage" when it comes to stemming gun violence.The Massachusetts senator and Democratic presidential candidate tells a campaign rally that if seven children were dying from a mysterious virus, "we'd pull out all the stops till we figured out what was wrong." But in terms of gun violence, she said the NRA "keeps calling the shots in Washington."Warren finished a two-day campaign trip to New Hampshire with an event at a middle school in Conway Sunday afternoon.Warren focused much of her speech on her approach to economics, but paid special attention to unions Sunday. She said more power needs to be put back in the hands of workers.BETO O'ROURKEDemocratic presidential candidate Beto O'Rourke told voters in Las Vegas Sunday that President Donald Trump bears blame for the separation of families at the U.S.-Mexico border but responsibility lies with everyone in the country to fix the situation.O'Rourke spoke Sunday to more than 200 people packed into and snaking around a taco shop on the city's north end. He said immigrant families are leaving their home countries and journeying on foot because they have no other choice.The former Texas congressman said desperate families were broken up in the U.S. when they were at their most vulnerable and desperate moments, and what happened to them "is on every single one of us."AdvertisementSupported byDAILY CROSSWORD COLUMNRyan McCarty lets us indulge but makes us exercise. Everyone into the pool!By Caitlin LovingerSATURDAY PUZZLE —  I love those puzzles (mostly Sundays, I think) where the theme is a joke that is unfurled over several entries with its punch line at the bottom. We’re themeless today, as usual on a Saturday, but the short stack in the middle of the grid made me laugh, if a bit ruefully, as I mentally joined the four entries. Just don’t take the last line to heart! It’s not about us, it’s some other guy.All four of those phrases are debuts, by the way; Ryan McCarty introduces language to the puzzle at a pretty good clip. I thought most of today’s puzzle was fair but fairly tough, smooth and very witty.I’m modest and slow, so please don’t take this as any sort of humblebrag; it’s more of a comment on what I referred to above, the fairness of a particular puzzle. But as I look at my completed grid, I think there’s only one entry that I had to resort to research to “get,” and it’s a short one, referred to in the title of the post. I was totally stumped by “orange ball.” I got FIVE on crosses and it didn’t occur to me until 3 a.m., or thereabouts, that Mr. McCarty meant the number on the orange ball in billiards. A memorably devious clue.I also really liked the clues for EDIT, BOTANY, RATED R and AROMA. I tend to think of a TASSEL as part of an ear of corn, but technically that’s on the stalk too, so it’s all good and tricky, and I did not know that the “Political Victory Fund” raised money for the NRA. 17A: The spelling here was a little confounding: AR TOO DE TOO (ARTOODETOO? I wouldn’t know how to break this little robot down) seems like he should have two TWOs in his name, for one, and then an R and a D. But this is established and how he’s been clued in the past. It was super cute of Mr. McCarty to run this nearly next to TOOTIE too.55A: This entry was also a first, and so were the other two in this small stack. It made me smile because UDON NOODLE soup has sustained me so well this winter — there are ramen spots popping up all over New York right now. I know ramen isn’t strictly udon, but you can get all types of noodles in these places, in hot broth with vegetables, and it feels very salubrious in the middle of winter. 10D: Car culture is funny; it’s very niche when it’s happening, but goes down in history as integral to the vibe of a whole era. The first thing I think of as typical of 1950s cars is their size, those big chubby Chevrolets and Dodges with whitewall tires, fins, bench seats (it helps that I was recently in Havana and saw dozens of these behemoths chugging through town). Nothing specific comes to mind today, and the answer, TWO TONE CAR, didn’t really either, which goes back to my earlier point. There is a growing number of modern models playing with color schemes, including Minis, Nissans, Toyotas and Volvos — it’s just not something I’ve ever really noticed.14D: I liked this entry; I’d only heard of these hard-boiled eggs as “marble eggs.” They’re strangely transfixing when viewed in a pile, as they appear sometimes as street food, but I’ve never actually tried them. You can make them at home.39D: This is an early week entry when commonly clued as “Lee Harvey ___” or something close to that. I had never heard of Mickey’s precursor, although I have seen cartoons featuring OSWALD the Lucky Rabbit — I’d just always thought that Mickey’s ears had evolved from straight and bunnyish to those little pompoms he has now, and that we’d always been dealing with a mouse. There’s an interesting back story to the rights to Oswald, which were lost back in the 1920s and then regained in 2006 by the Disney Company. I started this one by playing with a number of options at 32-Across and ended up with SCULPTED ABS working out best, and only then after running through a number of more normal options for 33-Down and ending up with the unusual C SCALE. I don’t love this answer as a musician because the scale itself is ambiguous (Major? Minor? Mixolydian?), but it helped pull together the middle. I originally had BAYONETTED for 29-Across before finding that it was more commonly spelled with one T in American English, so I ended up switching to BAYONETING and redoing the NE corner. Unfortunately, there weren’t as many stellar fill options here, so I threw in TEA EGG for some interest. I’m sure the critics will love it.Overall the editing team did a good job tempering my clues, some of which I’ll admit were a bit too difficult. I was sad to see a couple of my favorite clues go, including “One-man band?” for ID BRACELET, and “Public display of confection” for DESSERT CASE, but I’m glad they kept my unassuming clue for MEN. Hope you enjoy!Subscribers can take a peek at the answer key. AdvertisementSupported byBy Remy Tumin and Hiroko Masuike(Want to get this briefing by email? Here’s the sign-up.) Good evening. Here’s the latest.1. President Trump took his case for a wall to El Paso, where there is one.His rally was his first event along the border since a debate over funding a wall shut down the government. Negotiations to head off another shutdown appeared to be close to succeeding on Monday night.In a twist of political theater, Beto O’Rourke, below, a former Democratic congressman from El Paso and possible presidential candidate, spoke at a rally less than a mile from Mr. Trump’s.Ahead of the events, people across the political spectrum in El Paso had a message for the president: Don’t speak for us._____2. “Anti-Semitism is real and I am grateful for Jewish allies and colleagues who are educating me on the painful history of anti-Semitic tropes.”That was Representative Ilhan Omar, a freshman congresswoman from Minnesota, seen above two weeks ago. She had come under fire from Speaker Nancy Pelosi and the entire House Democratic leadership for insinuating on Twitter that American support for Israel was fueled by money from a pro-Israel lobbying group.She did not back away from her contention that the lobbying group, the American Israel Public Affairs Committee, has too much power in Washington. “At the same time, I reaffirm the problematic role of lobbyists in our politics, whether it be AIPAC, the NRA or the fossil fuel industry,” her statement said._____3. A Virginia Democrat’s push to begin impeachment proceedings against Lt. Gov. Justin Fairfax stalled after furious opposition from the party’s black caucus.They insist there not be a rush to oust Mr. Fairfax, who is black, over accusations of sexual assault while the state’s white governor and attorney general are refusing to resign after they admitted wearing blackface in their youth.Mr. Fairfax entered the legislative building around 11:30 a.m. this morning, made his way to the Senate chambers through a scrum of TV cameras, repeated that he had “called for an independent investigation,” adding: “I am still very confident in the truth.” And went to work, above._____4. Shrill, abrasive, aloof, unlikable.Some of the adjectives used to describe Hillary Clinton during her 2016 presidential campaign are now bubbling up in uncharted territory: a presidential race featuring six women running for the Democratic nomination.Few people admit they would hesitate to vote for a woman for president, but they don’t have to. We took a look at how sexism plays out on the campaign trail.And we have closer looks at two senators among the six: Amy Klobuchar of Minnesota, above, who joined the race Sunday, and Kamala Harris, whose record as a former district attorney and California attorney general faces a chorus of critics — especially on the left._____5. Assisting the doctor: A.I. In a new study, researchers from universities in the U.S. and China built a highly accurate system that could automatically diagnose common childhood conditions — including influenza and meningitis — after analyzing the patient’s symptoms, medical records, lab results and other clinical data.The system used a neural network, a breed of artificial intelligence, to digest the electronic health records from more than 1.3 million patient visits at a pediatric hospital in China. Above, doctors competed against A.I. computers to recognize illnesses during a competition in Beijing last year.Able to recognize patterns in data that humans could never identify on their own — and might not be able to understand — A.I. could assist doctors in diagnosing complex conditions, potentially transforming the health care industry and reducing the chances of misdiagnoses.In other A.I. news, President Trump signed an executive order meant to spur the development and regulation of artificial intelligence._____6. Brandi Carlile gave a thrilling performance. Drake showed up (though his acceptance speech got cut off). Alicia Keys was a laid-back host (and deftly played two pianos at once).We rounded up the best and worst of the Grammys, according to our music critics. At a ceremony dominated by female performers and presenters, Kacey Musgraves won album of the year for “Golden Hour,” as well as three other awards. Cardi B, above, became the first woman to win best rap album as a solo artist for “Invasion of Privacy.” Here’s the complete list of winners.From Cardi B on the half shell to Michelle Obama in a silver lounge suit and a barefoot Alicia Keys, women were front and center, our fashion critic writes. (The embedded slide show has all the red carpet looks.)This year’s award ceremony was perhaps as notable for who didn’t show up as who did, our pop music critic suggests._____7. The accusations against Уscar Arias Sбnchez, a former president of Costa Rica and Nobel laureate, are mounting. Above, Mr. Arias last month.Yazmнn Morales is one of at least nine women who have now come forward with accounts of sexual assault or misconduct.Telling her story was hard. Finding a lawyer to take the case was harder, revealing the social and political obstacles facing women in the region when they seek legal recourse, even in Latin America’s most significant #MeToo case.And our Interpreter column examines why the movement has made little headway in curbing abuses by ordinary men._____8. For New Yorkers who hate the subway, and anyone who likes to hate New York, this one’s for you.A portrait of subway hell in words and images, drawn from commuters’ tweets.Accessibility is a key issue. There are 550,000 New York residents who have difficulty walking. Our analysis found that two-thirds of them live far from an accessible subway station.And from Tokyo to Zurich, readers told us how New York’s subway compares with the public transportation in their cities (spoiler alert: not well)._____9. “It’s almost like heavenly visual music.”That’s Trond Trondsen of Calgary, an expert on the aurora borealis. He grew up in Norway fascinated by the mysterious light display, and he’s not alone. Seeing it has become a must for camera-toting international tourists, whether in Russia, Alaska, Greenland or Scandinavia.The sight can prove to be elusive, if ultimately rewarding, our writer found during a trip to northern Sweden, above. “It’s just a matter of waiting for the cosmic show,” she writes._____10. Finally, we end the day with some very good dogs.When we began digitizing six million photos in the Times archive, it quickly became apparent that while people and places changed, the dogs stayed very much the same, providing the kind of reliable delight they now deliver on Instagram scrolls. Above, a man and his dog driving down Fifth Avenue in New York in 1977.As the Westminster Kennel Club Dog Show kicks off, we assembled a panel of dog fans — from the Times staff to artists and animal trainers — to examine the everlasting obsession. “Dogs are just really pure,” one panelist said.Good luck to all the groups and breeds! We’ll see you Tuesday night when best in show is awarded.Have a winning night._____Your Evening Briefing is posted at 6 p.m. Eastern.And don’t miss Your Morning Briefing. Sign up here to get it by email in the Australian, Asian, European or American morning.Want to catch up on past briefings? You can browse them here.AdvertisementSupported byCRITIC’S pICKThe artist dances with wolves, and hunters, in his new film “Redoubt,” shot in his native Idaho. It’s the most emancipated work of his career. By Jason FaragoNEW HAVEN — Two parallel homecomings give shape to “Redoubt,” the much anticipated and unexpectedly nimble new project that Matthew Barney debuted here earlier this month. One is to Yale University, where Mr. Barney, class of 1989, began to merge ornery sculpture made with plastics and Vaseline with athletic performances and perplexing symbolism. Thirty years after graduating, the artist elected to present his newest project on the campus where he made his first mature work, in which the undergraduate would dangle from his studio walls or climb naked at Yale’s cathedral-like gym.The other homecoming is to central Idaho, where the artist grew up. As usual with Mr. Barney — whose epic “Cremaster” cycle (1994-2002) introduced a whole generation to the sexual potential of bees, rams, racecars and the Chrysler building — “Redoubt” combines sculptures, drawings and performances with a feature-length film that itself generates new artworks. Mr. Barney has filmed in Idaho before: The Busby Berkeley revue of “Cremaster 1” (1995) takes place on a blue Boise football field, while “River of Fundament” (2014), his six-hour noble failure of excrement-slicked reincarnation, features a poetic coda of salmon spawning in an Idaho river.But “Redoubt” is rooted, unlike those expansive works, in a single place: the remote, rugged Sawtooth Mountains, the landscape of Mr. Barney’s childhood. It also speaks more directly to contemporary American themes: the place of the gun, the fate of the environment and the fantasies and paranoias of those who turn their back on constitutional government and American society.Lighter, freer and a little more conventional than usual, it is Mr. Barney’s most engrossing film in over a decade. Mr. Barney appears only in a supporting role, and he now seems especially eager to embrace collaboration and improvisation, notably via dance, a fascinating addition to his cinematic techniques. It’s certainly less visually striking than the “Cremaster” cycle and “River of Fundament.” But I love the new, more open Mr. Barney of “Redoubt,” which the Yale University Art Gallery is screening on Saturday afternoons and at a few other times, alongside an exhibition of large bronze and brass sculptures and strange electroplated engravings inspired by the film. (The show travels afterward to Beijing, then London.)“Redoubt” has a cast of just six, and draws its structure partly from the tale in Ovid’s “Metamorphoses” of Diana, the chaste goddess of the hunt, and Actaeon, a doomed young hero who spies on her. Diana, here, is a hunter living off the grid in Idaho, attended by two dancing Virgins and clad in the military-grade camouflage favored by some anti-government types in the American west. (The film’s title alludes to American Redoubt, a far-right survivalist movement in the region.) We first see Diana crafting her own bullets out of the same bronze and brass Mr. Barney uses in his sculptures, against the awesome backdrop of Idaho’s snow-covered mountains. Diana is played by Anette Wachter, a world-champion sharpshooter who does her own marksmanship in the film; she is also a prolific gun blogger, and recently told the magazine NRA Family, “I can’t express how much I love being involved in the gun industry and culture.”Diana is hunting an elusive gray wolf, one of many returning to the Sawtooth Mountains after near-extinction, thanks to a federal government effort that drew strong opposition from the livestock industry, as well as hunters. The effort took place when Mr. Barney was a boy. Whatever its symbolic import in “Redoubt” (and Mr. Barney gives us plenty to work with, notably shots of the constellation Lupus), the wolf is also a living embodiment of the clash between Washington and anti-statist Idaho communities whose libertarianism comes in both mild and extremist strains. This project’s Diana is an American original, and hunts not as divine action but from political convictions.“Redoubt” tracks Diana and her two Virgins in search of their prey. (The cinematography is by Mr. Barney’s longtime collaborator Peter Strietmann, who pictures the mountains in a breathtaking palette of steely blues and grays, though he relies too much on drone shots that have already become travel-dad YouTube clichйs.) The only other human up in the mountains is an Engraver, played by Mr. Barney with a bushy white beard, who observes the women at a distance and etches their hunt on sheets of copper. His character is an artist, but also a federal employee: Note the United States Forest Service patch on his ski cap and green jacket.Each day, he drives to the trailer home of an Electroplater (played by K.J. Holmes, a renowned dance artist). She dunks his copper etchings in chemical baths, and, with the help of rudimentary batteries, coats them with a new metal crust. The etchings appear, transformed, in the exhibition here at Yale: pictures of Diana, of wolves and of the Idaho mountains that are encrusted with metal nodules and scorched in places after too long in the chemical bath.The show also includes a few larger-scale sculptures cast from fallen trees, which have much in common with the explosive bronze splashes made at the time of “River of Fundament” and seen at the Museum of Contemporary Art in Los Angeles. But it’s the electroplated etchings, sometimes daintily figurative and sometimes scarred into abstraction, that most fully express the aims of “Redoubt,” reflecting an artist seeking newer, freer shores. That freedom extends to another medium: dance. The revelation of “Redoubt” is Eleanor Bauer, who plays one of Diana’s two Virgins and choreographed the bulk of the film’s movement. (Like most of Mr. Barney’s films — except “River of Fundament,” in which Ms. Bauer also appears — this one has no dialogue.) She and Laura Stokes, playing the other Virgin, communicate through gesture and performance as they hunt. The women roll their legs over snow banks, writhe in a hammock and balance their weight against each other while bathing in a hot spring.  One even strings the other from a tree with climber’s rope, lifting her like a lupine carcass. In another dance sequence, Sandra Lamouche, a performer of the Bigstone Cree Nation, executes a hoop dance in an abandoned American Legion hall. Her brief appearance reaffirms that, where so much of Mr. Barney’s earlier work sought to disrupt binary understandings of identity, “Redoubt” is mostly focused on white bodies, and how white Americans live, colonize and kill in one of the continent’s most exquisite ecosystems.Ms. Bauer’s choreography draws heavily on Steve Paxton’s practice of contact improvisation, in which dancers respond to and anticipate each other’s motions. There are echoes, too, of Trish Brown’s gravity-defying dances with ropes and harnesses — especially when Ms. Bauer climbs a huge charred tree and splays her body horizontally. This stunning image of Ms. Bauer rigged in a climber’s harness, suspended hundreds of feet up in the Idaho air, has almost none of the mythopoetic baggage that weighed down “River of Fundament.” “Redoubt” plants itself in a place and time when the promises of democratic participation are unraveling, and where “prepper” fantasies of societal collapse intertwine with more justified fears of ecological degradation. And these more immediate concerns have produced a different sort of film, less awesome but more urgent, in which the bodies on screen find an unexpected freedom.This new work may therefore have less in common with “Cremaster” and “River of Fundament” than with the most primordial Barney works: his decades-long “Drawing Restraint” series, in which the artist draws on walls while dragging weights or while tethered by bungee cords. (The first of them took place in 1987, here at Yale.) It turns out that Ms. Bauer has also recently executed new phases of “Drawing Restraint,” at Mr. Barney’s invitation. In those works and this one, Mr. Barney seems to be forging a more emancipated kind of collaboration, more trusting that another body can replace his own.AdvertisementSupported byBy ReutersSYDNEY — Australia's nationalist One Nation party allegedly sought millions of dollars from the U.S. gun lobby and discussed weakening the country's strict gun control laws with the U.S. National Rifle Association, Al Jazeera reported.Posing as the head of a fake Australian pro-gun lobby, Al Jazeera secretly filmed top officials from Pauline Hanson's One Nation allegedly meeting NRA executives in Washington in 2018. The One Nation officials also discussed the possibility of raising A$20 million ($14.22 million) prior to a meeting with a U.S. gun lobby supporter, the report said.Concerned about foreign influence in Australian politics, particularly from China, the government introduced laws banning foreign political donations in November last year. The One Nation meetings took place in September."Reports that senior One Nation officials courted foreign political donations from the U.S. gun lobby to influence our elections and undermine our gun laws that keep us safe are deeply concerning," Australian Prime Minister Scott Morrison said in a post on Twitter on Tuesday.The two party representatives recorded in the Al Jazeera report, chief of staff James Ashby and Queensland state leader Steve Dickson, confirmed they attended the meetings but denied accepting a donation from the NRA."These conversations with the NRA were to look at nothing more than their (campaign) techniques," Ashby told reporters in Brisbane. "This was not about sourcing money from the NRA."NRA spokesman Andrew Arulanandam referred questions about Al Jazeera's report to the group's lobbying arm, the NRA Institute for Legislative Action. NRA-ILA spokeswoman Jennifer Baker said the group had no comment on the report.Australia has some of the world's strictest firearm laws, implemented after a lone gunman killed 35 people at Port Arthur on the island state of Tasmania in 1996.Australia banned semi-automatic weapons, launched a firearm buy-back scheme after the massacre, and imposed strict licensing rules which require weapons to be locked up when not in use.The role of One Nation in promoting right-wing nationalism in Australia has come under the spotlight in recent days following the killing of 50 Muslims in New Zealand earlier in March, allegedly by an Australian white supremacist. Al Jazeera said on its website the report was three years in the making.In the report, Ashby and Dickson can be heard allegedly telling NRA officials that with their help, the party could win enough seats to gain the balance of power in Australia's upper house of parliament."We get the balance of power, very simply that means that we have the testicles of the government in our hand at every given stage," says Dickson. "Guns, in the scheme of things, are still going to be the be-all and end-all."In another meeting with a U.S. gun lobby supporter, Dickson says: "It's going to get down to money at the end of the day. We can change the voting system in our country, the way people operate, if we've got the money to do it."The footage allegedly records an NRA lobbyist telling both Dickson and Ashby that it would benefit the U.S. pro-gun movement if Australia's gun laws were relaxed."That helps us because the biggest argument we get from folks is, 'Well, look at Australia,'" he says.In an emailed statement to Reuters, Ashby described the recordings as "skullduggery" and said he had referred the matter to the Australian Security Intelligence Organisation and the Australian Federal Police over concerns of foreign political interference in the lead-up to a federal election in May.Al Jazeera is Qatar's state-owned broadcaster. The head of its investigative unit who reported the segment, Peter Charley, said the allegation he was acting on behalf of a foreign government were "risible.""We're journalists doing a job," Charley told Reuters by telephone. "The original intention was to infiltrate the NRA. It was only quite late in the game that One Nation came into the frame."Nationalists have struggled to gain a significant voting bloc in Australia's parliament, although One Nation did wield considerable influence in the upper house between 2016 and 2018.The party fractured last year with several resignations, but it is hoping to regroup at the coming national election, with its support base being largely rural voters disillusioned with the major parties which they accuse of being city-focused. AdvertisementSupported byBy The Associated PressCANBERRA, Australia — Australia's prime minister on Tuesday accused an influential minor political party of trying to "sell Australia's gun laws to the highest bidders" by asking the U.S. gun lobby for donations.Prime Minister Scott Morrison was responding to an Al Jazeera documentary that reported One Nation party officials Steve Dickson and James Ashby flew to the United States for meetings with pro-gun interests including the National Rifle Association and political donors Koch Industries in September last year seeking money to undermine Australian gun laws.Dickson and Ashby later told reporters that they had not secured any U.S. money. They also said they had been quoted by Al Jazeera out of context and often after drinking.The trip took place weeks before the Australian Parliament banned foreign political donations with laws that took effect Jan. 1.Morrison said the revelations were reasons why Australians should not vote for One Nation at general elections due in May."We have reports that One Nation officials basically sought to sell Australia's gun laws to the highest bidders to a foreign buyer and I find that abhorrent," Morrison said.Morrison said his government had made laws to "criminalize taking foreign political donations so foreign lobbyists cannot seek to influence our politics."Opposition leader Bill Shorten, whom opinion polls suggest will be prime minister after the election, accused One Nation of a "betrayal of the Australian political system.""The idea of One National political party operatives going to the United States, seeking millions of dollars, promising to water-down gun law protection in Australia — that was absolutely horrifying," Shorten said.The Al Jazeera documentary used secret recordings made by a journalist posing as gun lobbyist Rodger Muller with a hidden camera.One Nation, an anti-Muslim party that had four senators after 2016 election but has been left with two after defections, said in a statement that all party members "have always complied with the law."One Nation also suggested the Qatar-owned Al Jazeera had breached new laws that prohibit covert foreign interference in Australian politics. The party said it had had complained to Australia's main domestic security agency and police "due to concerns of foreign interference into Australian politics in the lead up to the imminent federal election.""Al Jazeera are a state owned propaganda arm of the Qatari government that supports Islamic extremist groups and are not a legitimate media organization," the statement said."One Nation was invited by Rodger Muller, who has now been outed as a foreign agent working for Al Jazeera to meet with the NRA, American business leaders and attend the Congressional Sportsmen's Dinner" in Washington, the statement said.The NRA in a statement late Tuesday said Al Jazeera representatives, disguised as members of a group called "Gun Rights Australia," had set up meetings with NRA employees and brought Australian political party members to those meetings. "At no time did the NRA contribute funding to any Australian political party or Gun Rights Australia," NRA spokeswoman Jennifer Baker said in the statement.Ashby, who is party leader Pauline Hanson's chief of staff, is recorded saying that the party would "own" both the Australian Senate and House of Representatives with a $20 million donation from the U.S. gun lobby. This means the party would hold the balance of power in both chambers and influence a government's legislative agenda.Ashby also warned that if such a donation became public, it would "rock the boat."He told reporters on Tuesday that the U.S. trip had been a fact-finding mission to learn campaign tactics."These conversations with the NRA were to look at nothing more than their techniques. This was not about sourcing money from the NRA. This was about sourcing technology, sourcing an understanding of how they operate, but never was it about seeking $20 million dollars from the NRA," Ashby told reporters.The news followed the mosque attacks in New Zealand on March 15 for which an Australian white supremacist has been charged with murder. New Zealand has responded by banning a range of semi-automatic weapons and foreshadowing a government-funded buyback of newly outlawed guns. The country's response is similar to how Australia strengthened its gun laws following the murders of 35 people by a lone gunman in 1996 in Tasmania.One Nation state president Steve Dickson, who is a Senate candidate at the next election, traveled with Ashby and Muller to the United States to ask for political donations, Al Jazeera reported.Dickon told NRA officials that the Australian gun control model "will poison us all, unless we stop it," Al Jazeera reported.Dickson told reporters on Tuesday he supported Australia's gun laws. He said had not solicited donations in the United States, but conceded his party was not wealthy."I will tell you the absolute, humble truth. When I was asked: 'Do we need money to run election campaigns?' I said: 'Yes,'" Dickson told reporters.A former One Nation senator who is now an independent lawmaker, Fraser Anning, has been widely criticized for blaming Muslim immigration for the New Zealand massacre.Hanson, One Nation's leader who was criticized for wearing a burqa in the Senate, voted for the ban on foreign donations in November.AdvertisementSupported byBy The Associated PressCANBERRA, Australia — Australia's prime minister has accused an influential minor political party of trying to "sell Australia's gun laws to the highest bidders" by asking the U.S. gun lobby for donations.Prime Minister Scott Morrison was responding to an Al Jazeera documentary that reported One Nation party officials Steve Dickson and James Ashby flew to the United States for meetings with pro-gun interests including the National Rifle Association and political donors Koch Industries in September last year seeking money to undermine Australian gun laws.Dickson and Ashby later told reporters that they had not secured any U.S. money. They also said they had been quoted by Al Jazeera out of context and often after drinking.The trip took place weeks before the Australian Parliament banned foreign political donations with laws that took effect Jan. 1.Morrison said the revelations were reasons why Australians should not vote for One Nation at general elections due in May."We have reports that One Nation officials basically sought to sell Australia's gun laws to the highest bidders to a foreign buyer and I find that abhorrent," Morrison said Tuesday.Morrison said his government had made laws to "criminalize taking foreign political donations so foreign lobbyists cannot seek to influence our politics."Opposition leader Bill Shorten, whom opinion polls suggest will be prime minister after the election, accused One Nation of a "betrayal of the Australian political system.""The idea of One National political party operatives going to the United States, seeking millions of dollars, promising to water-down gun law protection in Australia — that was absolutely horrifying," Shorten said.The Al Jazeera documentary used secret recordings made by a journalist posing as gun lobbyist Rodger Muller with a hidden camera.One Nation, an anti-Muslim party that had four senators after 2016 election but has been left with two after defections, said in a statement that all party members "have always complied with the law."One Nation also suggested the Qatar-owned Al Jazeera had breached new laws that prohibit covert foreign interference in Australian politics. The party said it had had complained to Australia's main domestic security agency and police "due to concerns of foreign interference into Australian politics in the lead up to the imminent federal election.""Al Jazeera are a state-owned propaganda arm of the Qatari government that supports Islamic extremist groups and are not a legitimate media organization," the statement said."One Nation was invited by Rodger Muller, who has now been outed as a foreign agent working for Al Jazeera to meet with the NRA, American business leaders and attend the Congressional Sportsmen's Dinner" in Washington, the statement said.Al Jazeera said it stood by its reporting and that its journalists "adhere to the highest standards of professionalism and objectivity.""The suggestion that our staff is involved in espionage is both unfounded and, quite frankly, farcical," it said in a statement. It said it provided One Nation and its leaders "with an opportunity to comment on our evidence prior to broadcast but they declined to do so."The NRA in a statement late Tuesday said Al Jazeera representatives, disguised as members of a group called "Gun Rights Australia," had set up meetings with NRA employees and brought Australian political party members to those meetings. "At no time did the NRA contribute funding to any Australian political party or Gun Rights Australia," NRA spokeswoman Jennifer Baker said in the statement.Ashby, who is party leader Pauline Hanson's chief of staff, is recorded saying that the party would "own" both the Australian Senate and House of Representatives with a $20 million donation from the U.S. gun lobby. This means the party would hold the balance of power in both chambers and influence a government's legislative agenda.Ashby also warned that if such a donation became public, it would "rock the boat."He told reporters on Tuesday that the U.S. trip had been a fact-finding mission to learn campaign tactics."These conversations with the NRA were to look at nothing more than their techniques. This was not about sourcing money from the NRA. This was about sourcing technology, sourcing an understanding of how they operate, but never was it about seeking $20 million dollars from the NRA," Ashby told reporters.The news followed the mosque attacks in New Zealand on March 15 for which an Australian white supremacist has been charged with murder. New Zealand has responded by banning a range of semi-automatic weapons and foreshadowing a government-funded buyback of newly outlawed guns. The country's response is similar to how Australia strengthened its gun laws following the murders of 35 people by a lone gunman in 1996 in Tasmania.One Nation state president Steve Dickson, who is a Senate candidate at the next election, traveled with Ashby and Muller to the United States to ask for political donations, Al Jazeera reported.Dickon told NRA officials that the Australian gun control model "will poison us all, unless we stop it," Al Jazeera reported.Dickson told reporters on Tuesday he supported Australia's gun laws. He said had not solicited donations in the United States, but conceded his party was not wealthy."I will tell you the absolute, humble truth. When I was asked: 'Do we need money to run election campaigns?' I said: 'Yes,'" Dickson told reporters.A former One Nation senator who is now an independent lawmaker, Fraser Anning, has been widely criticized for blaming Muslim immigration for the New Zealand massacre.Hanson, One Nation's leader who was criticized for wearing a burqa in the Senate, voted for the ban on foreign donations in November.AdvertisementSupported byBy ReutersSYDNEY — Australia's nationalist One Nation party allegedly sought millions of dollars from the U.S. gun lobby and discussed weakening the country's strict gun control laws with the U.S. National Rifle Association (NRA), Al Jazeera reported.Posing as the head of a fake Australian pro-gun lobby, Al Jazeera secretly filmed top officials from Pauline Hanson's One Nation allegedly meeting NRA executives in Washington in 2018. It also reported the One Nation officials discussing the possibility of raising A$20 million ($14.22 million) prior to a meeting with a U.S. gun lobby supporter.Concerned about foreign influence in Australian politics, particularly from China, the government introduced laws banning foreign political donations in November last year. The One Nation meetings took place in September."Reports that senior One Nation officials courted foreign political donations from the U.S. gun lobby to influence our elections and undermine our gun laws that keep us safe are deeply concerning," Australian Prime Minister Scott Morrison Tweeted on Tuesday.One Nation confirmed in a statement their two representatives attended the meetings, but there was no evidence in the Al Jazeera TV report, aired late on Monday, that a donation was made.Calls and emails to the NRA headquarters in Virginia were not immediately returned.Australia has some of the world's strictest firearm laws, implemented after a lone gunman killed 35 people at Port Arthur on the island state of Tasmania in 1996.Australia banned semi-automatic weapons, launched a firearm buy-back scheme after the massacre, and imposed strict licensing rules which require weapons to be locked up when not in use.Al Jazeera said the report was three years in the making.In the report, One Nation's chief-of-staff James Ashby and Queensland state leader Steve Dickson can be seen allegedly telling NRA officials that with its help the party could win enough seats to gain the balance of power in Australia's upper house of parliament."We get the balance of power, very simply that means that we have the testicles of the government in our hand at every given stage," says Dickson. "Guns, in the scheme of things, are still going to be the be-all and end-all."In another meeting with a U.S. gun lobby supporter, Dickson says: "It's going to get down to money at the end of the day. We can change the voting system in our country, the way people operate, if we've got the money to do it."Ashby confirmed One Nation had been invited to attend the meetings but he accused Al Jazeera of interfering in Australia's looming national election, due in May."The matter has been referred to ASIO (the Australian Security Intelligence Organisation) and the Australian Federal Police due to concerns of foreign interference into Australian politics in the lead-up to the imminent federal election," Ashby said in the emailed statement.The footage allegedly records an NRA lobbyist telling both Dickson and Ashby that it would benefit the U.S. pro-gun movement if Australia's gun laws were relaxed."That helps us because the biggest argument we get from folks is, 'Well look at Australia'," he says.The role of One Nation in promoting right-wing nationalism in Australia has come under the spotlight in recent days following the killing of 50 Muslims in New Zealand, allegedly by an Australian white supremacist.Nationalists have struggled to gain a significant voting bloc in Australia's parliament, although One Nation did wield considerable influence in the upper house between 2016 and 2018.AdvertisementSupported byLetter 100By Isabella KwaiThis is our 100th Australia Letter. Thanks for reading and subscribing! For our next 100, we’ll be drawing in new writers and new approaches. Sign up to get it by email and tell us what you think: nytaustralia@nytimes.com.___In 2015, Al-Jazeera’s Investigative Unit had a question: what did the National Rifle Association say about mass shootings behind closed doors?To answer it, they planned a lengthy undercover investigation, in which a reporter posed as an Australian gun lobbyist to infiltrate meetings with the NRA and with One Nation, a far-right, anti-immigration party.The result, released in a two part documentary that aired on the Australian Broadcasting Corporation, is — at the very least — compelling.In hidden camera footage shot during a trip to the United States last year, senior figures from One Nation are heard discussing the influence a donation from the American gun lobby could buy in the Australia’s parliament. The cameras also captured advice from the NRA on how to respond to mass shootings and sway public opinion toward gun ownership.Australia has some of the toughest gun laws in the world, and the country is proud of it. So news that a political party’s officials were willing to soften the rules for foreign donations were met with alarm.Since then, Pauline Hanson, the party’s leader, has said the comments were taken out of context — she called Al-Jazeera an “Islamist” organization and a “Middle Eastern foreign agent.” But she also attacked the report’s ethics, calling it an “illegal, covert operation.”Was she at least a little bit right?There are of course many well-known accounts of undercover journalism and like many people, I’ve read them with interest, from Gloria Steinem’s infiltration of Playboy Clubs to Shane Bauer’s stint as an American prison guard.It’s one solution to a challenge all reporters think about: How do you get the information you need from those who don’t want to share?I spoke to two professors about Al-Jazeera’s report, and also asked The New York Times’s standards editor, Phil Corbett, for his views.Phil made clear that according to the Times ethics guide, staff members “should disclose their identity to people they cover” and “may not record conversations without the prior consent of all parties to the conversations.”Exceptions involving sustained deception have been extremely rare, he said.“Overall, we think, this is the best way to insure both fairness to our subjects and credibility with our readers.”That being said, he added, “we recognize that other news organizations have sometimes taken different approaches, and there is a long history of undercover reporting that unearthed important information.”The two professors I interviewed both argued that the story’s main discovery — that an Australian political party was aligning themselves with a controversial lobby group to potentially change policy — was clearly in the public interest.But they also agreed that there were two key areas that raise questions and concerns: The use of hidden cameras and the fact that an undercover reporter became a part of the story.One justification is that the documentary was transparent about its methods, said Andrew Dodd, director for the Centre for Advancing Journalism at the University of Melbourne.“The audience is fully aware of the artifice that was created,” he said. “The audience is therefore able to make an informed decision about what they’re watching.”But to go undercover for so long on this scale is not considered normal reporting “in any way, shape or form,” he added. “This should be a last resort. This has to remain extraordinary journalism that is practiced rarely and only for the very best reasons.”That reason would be to bring truths to the public that would not ever reach them otherwise, he said.He pointed to one moment in the documentary when the NRA discusses their social media strategy after shootings. “You see a glimpse of truth in that moment that you couldn’t get in a two hour debate,” he said.But Peter Greste, a former journalist for Al-Jazeera, now a professor at the University of Queensland, said the story crossed a line in having a reporter broker the meeting between the One Nation party and the NRA.“We are supposed to be observers to the news, not participants,” he said. “It’s inappropriate for journalists to become parts of the story the way they clearly did in this case.”While the findings are “distasteful,” the party was not doing anything illegal, he added.What also raises concerns is the party’s decision to refer Al-Jazeera to the federal police force and Australia’s national security agency, which Mr. Greste called a “dangerous precedent” — the consequences of which he is intimately familiar with.While working for Al-Jazeera in Cairo in 2013, Mr. Greste was arrested and detained by the Egyptian government for terrorism offences. “What happened to us in Egypt was the government using national security to effectively silence the press.”Given the cynicism toward journalism these days, he said, upholding the role of the impartial watchdog to gain public trust is more important than ever: “When you let ethical standards slip then I think we do damage to that support.”So where do you stand on this? How important is ethical reporting to you in the pursuit of stories in the public interest? Shoot us an email at nytaustralia@nytimes.com or join our NYT Australia Facebook group where we’ll be discussing this in detail.Now, onto a selection of the best Times stories of the week!___This week, we continue reporting on Christchurch and bring you a Netflix guide.• Prosecutors Accuse Australian Journalists of Violating Gag Order on Cardinal’s Trial: The journalists could face fines and possibly prison time over the allegations, which stem from Cardinal George Pell’s trial and conviction on sexual abuse charges.• 10 Days After Christchurch Shootings, Jacinda Ardern Announces a Trip to China: The announcement signaled a shift after signs of growing tensions between the two countries.• Mourners Honor Dead With Call To Prayer in Christchurch: “This terrorist sought to tear our nation apart with an evil ideology that has torn the world apart — but instead we have shown that New Zealand is unbreakable,” said one imam.• ‘This Egg Has United People,’ Teenager Says of Protest Against Bigotry: 17-year-old Will Connolly broke his silence on egg-actly what happened and his reaction to his newfound fame. (I had to.)• ’10 Things I Hate About You,’ When Heath Ledger Was Just Breaking Through: An interview with the cast, screenwriters and director of the late 90s rom-com classic.• The Best Movies and TV Shows New to Netflix Australia in April: Making Netflix choices just too easy for you.___Last Friday, Attorney General William P. Barr told congressional leaders that the special counsel, Robert S. Mueller III, has concluded his inquiry into Russian interference in the 2016 election.The investigation found that neither President Trump nor any of his aides conspired with the Russian government, but did not draw conclusions on any obstruction of justice. To catch up on the highlights, read our live briefing here. You can also read a summary of the report here.___Four of our most popular stories of the week.• Adventurous, Alone, Attacked: The number of female solo travelers has skyrocketed, but amid Instagram-worthy escapades are tales of violence and death, raising questions about how the world is greeting women who travel alone.• The Daily Miracle: Finding Magic Inside The Times’s Printing Plant: The photographer Christopher Payne spent two years shooting The Times’s printing plant in College Point, Queens. He captured the craft, precision, and unexpected beauty of the newspaper printing process.• ‘Dog Suicide Bridge’: Why Do So Many Pets Keep Leaping Into a Scottish Gorge?: Scots insist that hundreds of dogs have been mysteriously compelled to throw themselves off a stone bridge.AdvertisementSupported byBy The Associated PressSACRAMENTO, Calif. — It appears the shipment of high-capacity ammunition magazines into California has started for the first time in nearly two decades after a judge tossed out a ban on sales and purchases of the items, the state attorney general said Tuesday.Attorney General Xavier Becerra asked a federal judge to delay implementing the ruling while he appeals it.U.S. District Judge Roger Benitez in San Diego said Friday that a law that bans possessing, buying or selling any magazines holding more than 10 bullets infringes on the Second Amendment right to bear arms.With the ban lifted, even temporarily, Becerra said in a court filing that "there is evidence that sales have begun already."His office cited a Facebook ad from an out-of-state, online dealer saying it will ship the large-capacity magazines to California. The ad urged buyers to be patient because of an expected increase in orders."We are getting prepared to send a whole lot of freedom to our friends in California," reads the post from South Carolina-based Palmetto State Armory. The company did not immediately respond to telephone and email messages.Chuck Michel, an attorney for the NRA and the California Rifle & Pistol Association who filed the lawsuit that led to the ruling, agreed with Becerra that it allows individuals to legally acquire high-capacity magazines."There's dealers advertising them now and there are chat rooms where people are discussing buying them and we're getting calls from dealers asking what's legal to acquire," Michel said."The gray area is, what will the status of these magazines acquired during this window be if the stay is reinstated?" Michel said.If the 9th U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals reinstates the ban and a 2016 law outlawing possession, Michel said, buyers could be legally required to give up their newly acquired high-capacity magazines.However, Becerra warned in his court filing that it would be difficult for the state to remove the magazines, even if the ban is reinstated.Becerra said in a statement that California leads the nation when it comes to gun safety and refuses to go backward.AdvertisementSupported byBy ReutersDENVER — The Colorado legislature on Monday passed a "red flag" bill that would allow those deemed a threat to have their firearms seized, despite opposition by most of the state’s sheriffs and threats of legal challenges.Both chambers of the Democratic-controlled General Assembly approved the measure, sending it to the desk of Governor Jared Polis, also a Democrat, who has indicated his support for the measure.If signed into law, Colorado would become the 15th state to enact similar legislation, also called Extreme Risk Protection Orders, according to a statement from statehouse Democrats.Under the legislation, a family member or law enforcement officer could petition a judge to seize firearms from a person they think is a threat to themselves or others. The judge could then hold a hearing without the targeted person being present and grant a temporary order for 14 days.After the two-week order, both the petitioner and the gun owner could then try to persuade a judge why the firearms should or should not be returned.About 50 of the state’s 62 elected sheriffs oppose the measure, according to Weld County Sheriff Steve Reams, who told Reuters he would not enforce the law because it could put his deputies at risk if they raid a home without prior notice.'UNCHALLENGED STATEMENTS'The Second Amendment to the U.S. Constitution guarantees citizens the right to keep and bear arms. Opponents say the Colorado measure goes too far because it does not allow for a person to be heard in court before a judge issues a gun removal order.“Unchallenged statements made by a petitioner before a judge ... would be sufficient for law enforcement to enter that person’s home and confiscate their private property,” the National Rifle Association (NRA) said in a statement.One of the proposal’s sponsors, House Rep. Tom Sullivan, said he ran for elected office after his son Alex was killed in a mass shooting at a Colorado movie theater in 2012.“This bill will give law enforcement and families the tools that they need to stop tragedies from constantly happening and save lives," said Sullivan, a Democrat.The board of commissioners in heavily-Republican El Paso County passed a resolution last month vowing to "actively resist" the law, including taking legal action, if it is enacted.AdvertisementSupported byBy ReutersWASHINGTON — Maria Butina, who has admitted to working as a Russian agent to infiltrate an influential gun rights group and make inroads with U.S. conservative activists and Republicans, will be sentenced on April 26, U.S. District Judge Tanya Chutkan said on Thursday.Butina, a former graduate student at American University who publicly advocated for gun rights, pleaded guilty in December to one count of conspiring to act as a foreign agent for Russia. She has remained in custody since her arrest in July 2018.The 30-year-old native of Siberia wore a green jail jump suit during the brief hearing in Washington, but said nothing.Chutkan said during the hearing that sentencing memos from prosecutors and Butina's defense team will be due a week before the sentencing date. Prosecutors and defense lawyers approached the bench for a discussion with the judge, but the subject of those talks was not made public.Butina has admitted to conspiring with a Russian official and two Americans from 2015 until her arrest to infiltrate the National Rifle Association and create unofficial lines of communication to try to make Washington's policy toward Moscow more friendly. The NRA is closely aligned with U.S. conservatives and Republican politicians including President Donald Trump.Chutkan in February had delayed the sentencing at the request of prosecutors, who said Butina was cooperating in their ongoing investigation. Butina's attorney, Robert Driscoll, said at the time his client was ready for sentencing.Russia in December accused the United States of forcing Butina to falsely confess to what it described as the "absolutely ridiculous charges" of her being a Russian agent.Court records have pointed to the involvement of several others with Butina's actions including Paul Erickson, a conservative political activist with deep Republican ties who was romantically linked to her. Erickson is referred to as "Person 1" court records, which stated that he helped advise her on which American politicians to target for meetings.Erickson's attorney William Hurd declined to comment.Federal prosecutors in South Dakota have charged Erickson with 11 counts of wire fraud and money laundering unrelated to the case against Butina. Erickson's indictment appeared to make references to her when it said he made a payment of $8,000 to an "M.B." in June 2015 and another payment of $1,000 to "M.B." in March 2017, as well as more than $20,000 to American University in June 2017.Alexander Torshin, who was a deputy governor of Russia's central bank, has been identified as the Russian official involved in Butina's case. AdvertisementSupported byBy The Associated PressSACRAMENTO, Calif. — High-capacity gun magazines will remain legal in California under a ruling Friday by a federal judge who cited home invasions where a woman used the extra bullets in her weapon to kill an attacker while in two other cases women without additional ammunition ran out of bullets."Individual liberty and freedom are not outmoded concepts," San Diego-based U.S. District Judge Roger Benitez wrote as he declared unconstitutional the law that would have banned possessing any magazines holding more than 10 bullets.California law has prohibited buying or selling such magazines since 2000, but those who had them before then were allowed to keep them.In 2016, the Legislature and voters approved a law removing that provision. The California arm of the National Rifle Association sued and Benitez sided with the group's argument that banning the magazines infringes on the Second Amendment right to bear arms.Benitez had temporarily blocked the law from taking effect with a 2017 ruling.Chuck Michel, an attorney for the NRA and the California Rifle & Pistol Association, said the judge's latest ruling may go much farther by striking down the entire ban, allowing individuals to legally acquire high-capacity magazines for the first time in nearly two decades."We're still digesting the opinion but it appears to us that he struck down both the latest ban on possessing by those who are grandfathered in, but also said that everyone has a right to acquire one," Michel said.Attorney General Xavier Becerra said in a statement that his office is "committed to defending California's common sense gun laws" and is reviewing the decision and evaluating its next steps.The goal of the California law is to deter mass-shootings, with Becerra previously listing as an example the terrorist assault that killed 14 and injured 22 in San Bernardino.Benitez, an appointee of Republican President George W. Bush, called such shootings "exceedingly rare" while emphasizing the everyday robberies, rapes and murders he said might be countered with firearms.The Giffords Law Center to Prevent Gun Violence, named after a former congresswoman who survived a mass shooting, is also still evaluating whether the decision applies more broadly, said staff attorney Ari Freilich.But Freilich predicted the "extreme outlier decision" will be overturned on appeal and criticized a judge "so deeply out of touch that he believes mass shootings are a 'very small' problem in this country."Becerra previously said similar Second Amendment challenges have been repeatedly rejected by other courts, with at least seven other states and 11 local governments already restricting the possession or sale of large-capacity magazines. The conflicting decisions may ultimately be sorted out by the U.S. Supreme Court.Benitez ruled that magazines holding more than 10 rounds are "arms" under the U.S. Constitution, and that the California law "burdens the core of the Second Amendment by criminalizing the acquisition and possession of these magazines that are commonly held by law-abiding citizens for defense of self, home, and state."Benitez described three home invasions, two of which ended with the female victims running out of bullets.In the third case, the pajama-clad woman with a high-capacity magazine took on three armed intruders, firing at them while simultaneously calling for help on her phone."She had no place to carry an extra magazine and no way to reload because her left hand held the phone with which she was still trying to call 911," the judge wrote, saying she killed one attacker while two escaped.The magazine ban was included in 2016 legislation that voters strengthened with their approval of Proposition 63, which was championed by then-Lt. Gov. Gavin Newsom.AdvertisementSupported byDAILY CROSSWORD COLUMNRyan McCarty lets us indulge but makes us exercise. Everyone into the pool!By Caitlin LovingerSATURDAY PUZZLE —  I love those puzzles (mostly Sundays, I think) where the theme is a joke that is unfurled over several entries with its punch line at the bottom. We’re themeless today, as usual on a Saturday, but the short stack in the middle of the grid made me laugh, if a bit ruefully, as I mentally joined the four entries. Just don’t take the last line to heart! It’s not about us, it’s some other guy.All four of those phrases are debuts, by the way; Ryan McCarty introduces language to the puzzle at a pretty good clip. I thought most of today’s puzzle was fair but fairly tough, smooth and very witty.I’m modest and slow, so please don’t take this as any sort of humblebrag; it’s more of a comment on what I referred to above, the fairness of a particular puzzle. But as I look at my completed grid, I think there’s only one entry that I had to resort to research to “get,” and it’s a short one, referred to in the title of the post. I was totally stumped by “orange ball.” I got FIVE on crosses and it didn’t occur to me until 3 a.m., or thereabouts, that Mr. McCarty meant the number on the orange ball in billiards. A memorably devious clue.I also really liked the clues for EDIT, BOTANY, RATED R and AROMA. I tend to think of a TASSEL as part of an ear of corn, but technically that’s on the stalk too, so it’s all good and tricky, and I did not know that the “Political Victory Fund” raised money for the NRA. 17A: The spelling here was a little confounding: AR TOO DE TOO (ARTOODETOO? I wouldn’t know how to break this little robot down) seems like he should have two TWOs in his name, for one, and then an R and a D. But this is established and how he’s been clued in the past. It was super cute of Mr. McCarty to run this nearly next to TOOTIE too.55A: This entry was also a first, and so were the other two in this small stack. It made me smile because UDON NOODLE soup has sustained me so well this winter — there are ramen spots popping up all over New York right now. I know ramen isn’t strictly udon, but you can get all types of noodles in these places, in hot broth with vegetables, and it feels very salubrious in the middle of winter. 10D: Car culture is funny; it’s very niche when it’s happening, but goes down in history as integral to the vibe of a whole era. The first thing I think of as typical of 1950s cars is their size, those big chubby Chevrolets and Dodges with whitewall tires, fins, bench seats (it helps that I was recently in Havana and saw dozens of these behemoths chugging through town). Nothing specific comes to mind today, and the answer, TWO TONE CAR, didn’t really either, which goes back to my earlier point. There is a growing number of modern models playing with color schemes, including Minis, Nissans, Toyotas and Volvos — it’s just not something I’ve ever really noticed.14D: I liked this entry; I’d only heard of these hard-boiled eggs as “marble eggs.” They’re strangely transfixing when viewed in a pile, as they appear sometimes as street food, but I’ve never actually tried them. You can make them at home.39D: This is an early week entry when commonly clued as “Lee Harvey ___” or something close to that. I had never heard of Mickey’s precursor, although I have seen cartoons featuring OSWALD the Lucky Rabbit — I’d just always thought that Mickey’s ears had evolved from straight and bunnyish to those little pompoms he has now, and that we’d always been dealing with a mouse. There’s an interesting back story to the rights to Oswald, which were lost back in the 1920s and then regained in 2006 by the Disney Company. I started this one by playing with a number of options at 32-Across and ended up with SCULPTED ABS working out best, and only then after running through a number of more normal options for 33-Down and ending up with the unusual C SCALE. I don’t love this answer as a musician because the scale itself is ambiguous (Major? Minor? Mixolydian?), but it helped pull together the middle. I originally had BAYONETTED for 29-Across before finding that it was more commonly spelled with one T in American English, so I ended up switching to BAYONETING and redoing the NE corner. Unfortunately, there weren’t as many stellar fill options here, so I threw in TEA EGG for some interest. I’m sure the critics will love it.Overall the editing team did a good job tempering my clues, some of which I’ll admit were a bit too difficult. I was sad to see a couple of my favorite clues go, including “One-man band?” for ID BRACELET, and “Public display of confection” for DESSERT CASE, but I’m glad they kept my unassuming clue for MEN. Hope you enjoy!Subscribers can take a peek at the answer key. AdvertisementSupported byBy Remy Tumin and Hiroko Masuike(Want to get this briefing by email? Here’s the sign-up.) Good evening. Here’s the latest.1. President Trump took his case for a wall to El Paso, where there is one.His rally was his first event along the border since a debate over funding a wall shut down the government. Negotiations to head off another shutdown appeared to be close to succeeding on Monday night.In a twist of political theater, Beto O’Rourke, below, a former Democratic congressman from El Paso and possible presidential candidate, spoke at a rally less than a mile from Mr. Trump’s.Ahead of the events, people across the political spectrum in El Paso had a message for the president: Don’t speak for us._____2. “Anti-Semitism is real and I am grateful for Jewish allies and colleagues who are educating me on the painful history of anti-Semitic tropes.”That was Representative Ilhan Omar, a freshman congresswoman from Minnesota, seen above two weeks ago. She had come under fire from Speaker Nancy Pelosi and the entire House Democratic leadership for insinuating on Twitter that American support for Israel was fueled by money from a pro-Israel lobbying group.She did not back away from her contention that the lobbying group, the American Israel Public Affairs Committee, has too much power in Washington. “At the same time, I reaffirm the problematic role of lobbyists in our politics, whether it be AIPAC, the NRA or the fossil fuel industry,” her statement said._____3. A Virginia Democrat’s push to begin impeachment proceedings against Lt. Gov. Justin Fairfax stalled after furious opposition from the party’s black caucus.They insist there not be a rush to oust Mr. Fairfax, who is black, over accusations of sexual assault while the state’s white governor and attorney general are refusing to resign after they admitted wearing blackface in their youth.Mr. Fairfax entered the legislative building around 11:30 a.m. this morning, made his way to the Senate chambers through a scrum of TV cameras, repeated that he had “called for an independent investigation,” adding: “I am still very confident in the truth.” And went to work, above._____4. Shrill, abrasive, aloof, unlikable.Some of the adjectives used to describe Hillary Clinton during her 2016 presidential campaign are now bubbling up in uncharted territory: a presidential race featuring six women running for the Democratic nomination.Few people admit they would hesitate to vote for a woman for president, but they don’t have to. We took a look at how sexism plays out on the campaign trail.And we have closer looks at two senators among the six: Amy Klobuchar of Minnesota, above, who joined the race Sunday, and Kamala Harris, whose record as a former district attorney and California attorney general faces a chorus of critics — especially on the left._____5. Assisting the doctor: A.I. In a new study, researchers from universities in the U.S. and China built a highly accurate system that could automatically diagnose common childhood conditions — including influenza and meningitis — after analyzing the patient’s symptoms, medical records, lab results and other clinical data.The system used a neural network, a breed of artificial intelligence, to digest the electronic health records from more than 1.3 million patient visits at a pediatric hospital in China. Above, doctors competed against A.I. computers to recognize illnesses during a competition in Beijing last year.Able to recognize patterns in data that humans could never identify on their own — and might not be able to understand — A.I. could assist doctors in diagnosing complex conditions, potentially transforming the health care industry and reducing the chances of misdiagnoses.In other A.I. news, President Trump signed an executive order meant to spur the development and regulation of artificial intelligence._____6. Brandi Carlile gave a thrilling performance. Drake showed up (though his acceptance speech got cut off). Alicia Keys was a laid-back host (and deftly played two pianos at once).We rounded up the best and worst of the Grammys, according to our music critics. At a ceremony dominated by female performers and presenters, Kacey Musgraves won album of the year for “Golden Hour,” as well as three other awards. Cardi B, above, became the first woman to win best rap album as a solo artist for “Invasion of Privacy.” Here’s the complete list of winners.From Cardi B on the half shell to Michelle Obama in a silver lounge suit and a barefoot Alicia Keys, women were front and center, our fashion critic writes. (The embedded slide show has all the red carpet looks.)This year’s award ceremony was perhaps as notable for who didn’t show up as who did, our pop music critic suggests._____7. The accusations against Уscar Arias Sбnchez, a former president of Costa Rica and Nobel laureate, are mounting. Above, Mr. Arias last month.Yazmнn Morales is one of at least nine women who have now come forward with accounts of sexual assault or misconduct.Telling her story was hard. Finding a lawyer to take the case was harder, revealing the social and political obstacles facing women in the region when they seek legal recourse, even in Latin America’s most significant #MeToo case.And our Interpreter column examines why the movement has made little headway in curbing abuses by ordinary men._____8. For New Yorkers who hate the subway, and anyone who likes to hate New York, this one’s for you.A portrait of subway hell in words and images, drawn from commuters’ tweets.Accessibility is a key issue. There are 550,000 New York residents who have difficulty walking. Our analysis found that two-thirds of them live far from an accessible subway station.And from Tokyo to Zurich, readers told us how New York’s subway compares with the public transportation in their cities (spoiler alert: not well)._____9. “It’s almost like heavenly visual music.”That’s Trond Trondsen of Calgary, an expert on the aurora borealis. He grew up in Norway fascinated by the mysterious light display, and he’s not alone. Seeing it has become a must for camera-toting international tourists, whether in Russia, Alaska, Greenland or Scandinavia.The sight can prove to be elusive, if ultimately rewarding, our writer found during a trip to northern Sweden, above. “It’s just a matter of waiting for the cosmic show,” she writes._____10. Finally, we end the day with some very good dogs.When we began digitizing six million photos in the Times archive, it quickly became apparent that while people and places changed, the dogs stayed very much the same, providing the kind of reliable delight they now deliver on Instagram scrolls. Above, a man and his dog driving down Fifth Avenue in New York in 1977.As the Westminster Kennel Club Dog Show kicks off, we assembled a panel of dog fans — from the Times staff to artists and animal trainers — to examine the everlasting obsession. “Dogs are just really pure,” one panelist said.Good luck to all the groups and breeds! We’ll see you Tuesday night when best in show is awarded.Have a winning night._____Your Evening Briefing is posted at 6 p.m. Eastern.And don’t miss Your Morning Briefing. Sign up here to get it by email in the Australian, Asian, European or American morning.Want to catch up on past briefings? You can browse them here.AdvertisementSupported byCRITIC’S pICKThe artist dances with wolves, and hunters, in his new film “Redoubt,” shot in his native Idaho. It’s the most emancipated work of his career. By Jason FaragoNEW HAVEN — Two parallel homecomings give shape to “Redoubt,” the much anticipated and unexpectedly nimble new project that Matthew Barney debuted here earlier this month. One is to Yale University, where Mr. Barney, class of 1989, began to merge ornery sculpture made with plastics and Vaseline with athletic performances and perplexing symbolism. Thirty years after graduating, the artist elected to present his newest project on the campus where he made his first mature work, in which the undergraduate would dangle from his studio walls or climb naked at Yale’s cathedral-like gym.The other homecoming is to central Idaho, where the artist grew up. As usual with Mr. Barney — whose epic “Cremaster” cycle (1994-2002) introduced a whole generation to the sexual potential of bees, rams, racecars and the Chrysler building — “Redoubt” combines sculptures, drawings and performances with a feature-length film that itself generates new artworks. Mr. Barney has filmed in Idaho before: The Busby Berkeley revue of “Cremaster 1” (1995) takes place on a blue Boise football field, while “River of Fundament” (2014), his six-hour noble failure of excrement-slicked reincarnation, features a poetic coda of salmon spawning in an Idaho river.But “Redoubt” is rooted, unlike those expansive works, in a single place: the remote, rugged Sawtooth Mountains, the landscape of Mr. Barney’s childhood. It also speaks more directly to contemporary American themes: the place of the gun, the fate of the environment and the fantasies and paranoias of those who turn their back on constitutional government and American society.Lighter, freer and a little more conventional than usual, it is Mr. Barney’s most engrossing film in over a decade. Mr. Barney appears only in a supporting role, and he now seems especially eager to embrace collaboration and improvisation, notably via dance, a fascinating addition to his cinematic techniques. It’s certainly less visually striking than the “Cremaster” cycle and “River of Fundament.” But I love the new, more open Mr. Barney of “Redoubt,” which the Yale University Art Gallery is screening on Saturday afternoons and at a few other times, alongside an exhibition of large bronze and brass sculptures and strange electroplated engravings inspired by the film. (The show travels afterward to Beijing, then London.)“Redoubt” has a cast of just six, and draws its structure partly from the tale in Ovid’s “Metamorphoses” of Diana, the chaste goddess of the hunt, and Actaeon, a doomed young hero who spies on her. Diana, here, is a hunter living off the grid in Idaho, attended by two dancing Virgins and clad in the military-grade camouflage favored by some anti-government types in the American west. (The film’s title alludes to American Redoubt, a far-right survivalist movement in the region.) We first see Diana crafting her own bullets out of the same bronze and brass Mr. Barney uses in his sculptures, against the awesome backdrop of Idaho’s snow-covered mountains. Diana is played by Anette Wachter, a world-champion sharpshooter who does her own marksmanship in the film; she is also a prolific gun blogger, and recently told the magazine NRA Family, “I can’t express how much I love being involved in the gun industry and culture.”Diana is hunting an elusive gray wolf, one of many returning to the Sawtooth Mountains after near-extinction, thanks to a federal government effort that drew strong opposition from the livestock industry, as well as hunters. The effort took place when Mr. Barney was a boy. Whatever its symbolic import in “Redoubt” (and Mr. Barney gives us plenty to work with, notably shots of the constellation Lupus), the wolf is also a living embodiment of the clash between Washington and anti-statist Idaho communities whose libertarianism comes in both mild and extremist strains. This project’s Diana is an American original, and hunts not as divine action but from political convictions.“Redoubt” tracks Diana and her two Virgins in search of their prey. (The cinematography is by Mr. Barney’s longtime collaborator Peter Strietmann, who pictures the mountains in a breathtaking palette of steely blues and grays, though he relies too much on drone shots that have already become travel-dad YouTube clichйs.) The only other human up in the mountains is an Engraver, played by Mr. Barney with a bushy white beard, who observes the women at a distance and etches their hunt on sheets of copper. His character is an artist, but also a federal employee: Note the United States Forest Service patch on his ski cap and green jacket.Each day, he drives to the trailer home of an Electroplater (played by K.J. Holmes, a renowned dance artist). She dunks his copper etchings in chemical baths, and, with the help of rudimentary batteries, coats them with a new metal crust. The etchings appear, transformed, in the exhibition here at Yale: pictures of Diana, of wolves and of the Idaho mountains that are encrusted with metal nodules and scorched in places after too long in the chemical bath.The show also includes a few larger-scale sculptures cast from fallen trees, which have much in common with the explosive bronze splashes made at the time of “River of Fundament” and seen at the Museum of Contemporary Art in Los Angeles. But it’s the electroplated etchings, sometimes daintily figurative and sometimes scarred into abstraction, that most fully express the aims of “Redoubt,” reflecting an artist seeking newer, freer shores. That freedom extends to another medium: dance. The revelation of “Redoubt” is Eleanor Bauer, who plays one of Diana’s two Virgins and choreographed the bulk of the film’s movement. (Like most of Mr. Barney’s films — except “River of Fundament,” in which Ms. Bauer also appears — this one has no dialogue.) She and Laura Stokes, playing the other Virgin, communicate through gesture and performance as they hunt. The women roll their legs over snow banks, writhe in a hammock and balance their weight against each other while bathing in a hot spring.  One even strings the other from a tree with climber’s rope, lifting her like a lupine carcass. In another dance sequence, Sandra Lamouche, a performer of the Bigstone Cree Nation, executes a hoop dance in an abandoned American Legion hall. Her brief appearance reaffirms that, where so much of Mr. Barney’s earlier work sought to disrupt binary understandings of identity, “Redoubt” is mostly focused on white bodies, and how white Americans live, colonize and kill in one of the continent’s most exquisite ecosystems.Ms. Bauer’s choreography draws heavily on Steve Paxton’s practice of contact improvisation, in which dancers respond to and anticipate each other’s motions. There are echoes, too, of Trish Brown’s gravity-defying dances with ropes and harnesses — especially when Ms. Bauer climbs a huge charred tree and splays her body horizontally. This stunning image of Ms. Bauer rigged in a climber’s harness, suspended hundreds of feet up in the Idaho air, has almost none of the mythopoetic baggage that weighed down “River of Fundament.” “Redoubt” plants itself in a place and time when the promises of democratic participation are unraveling, and where “prepper” fantasies of societal collapse intertwine with more justified fears of ecological degradation. And these more immediate concerns have produced a different sort of film, less awesome but more urgent, in which the bodies on screen find an unexpected freedom.This new work may therefore have less in common with “Cremaster” and “River of Fundament” than with the most primordial Barney works: his decades-long “Drawing Restraint” series, in which the artist draws on walls while dragging weights or while tethered by bungee cords. (The first of them took place in 1987, here at Yale.) It turns out that Ms. Bauer has also recently executed new phases of “Drawing Restraint,” at Mr. Barney’s invitation. In those works and this one, Mr. Barney seems to be forging a more emancipated kind of collaboration, more trusting that another body can replace his own.AdvertisementSupported byBy ReutersSYDNEY — Australia's nationalist One Nation party allegedly sought millions of dollars from the U.S. gun lobby and discussed weakening the country's strict gun control laws with the U.S. National Rifle Association, Al Jazeera reported.Posing as the head of a fake Australian pro-gun lobby, Al Jazeera secretly filmed top officials from Pauline Hanson's One Nation allegedly meeting NRA executives in Washington in 2018. The One Nation officials also discussed the possibility of raising A$20 million ($14.22 million) prior to a meeting with a U.S. gun lobby supporter, the report said.Concerned about foreign influence in Australian politics, particularly from China, the government introduced laws banning foreign political donations in November last year. The One Nation meetings took place in September."Reports that senior One Nation officials courted foreign political donations from the U.S. gun lobby to influence our elections and undermine our gun laws that keep us safe are deeply concerning," Australian Prime Minister Scott Morrison said in a post on Twitter on Tuesday.The two party representatives recorded in the Al Jazeera report, chief of staff James Ashby and Queensland state leader Steve Dickson, confirmed they attended the meetings but denied accepting a donation from the NRA."These conversations with the NRA were to look at nothing more than their (campaign) techniques," Ashby told reporters in Brisbane. "This was not about sourcing money from the NRA."NRA spokesman Andrew Arulanandam referred questions about Al Jazeera's report to the group's lobbying arm, the NRA Institute for Legislative Action. NRA-ILA spokeswoman Jennifer Baker said the group had no comment on the report.Australia has some of the world's strictest firearm laws, implemented after a lone gunman killed 35 people at Port Arthur on the island state of Tasmania in 1996.Australia banned semi-automatic weapons, launched a firearm buy-back scheme after the massacre, and imposed strict licensing rules which require weapons to be locked up when not in use.The role of One Nation in promoting right-wing nationalism in Australia has come under the spotlight in recent days following the killing of 50 Muslims in New Zealand earlier in March, allegedly by an Australian white supremacist. Al Jazeera said on its website the report was three years in the making.In the report, Ashby and Dickson can be heard allegedly telling NRA officials that with their help, the party could win enough seats to gain the balance of power in Australia's upper house of parliament."We get the balance of power, very simply that means that we have the testicles of the government in our hand at every given stage," says Dickson. "Guns, in the scheme of things, are still going to be the be-all and end-all."In another meeting with a U.S. gun lobby supporter, Dickson says: "It's going to get down to money at the end of the day. We can change the voting system in our country, the way people operate, if we've got the money to do it."The footage allegedly records an NRA lobbyist telling both Dickson and Ashby that it would benefit the U.S. pro-gun movement if Australia's gun laws were relaxed."That helps us because the biggest argument we get from folks is, 'Well, look at Australia,'" he says.In an emailed statement to Reuters, Ashby described the recordings as "skullduggery" and said he had referred the matter to the Australian Security Intelligence Organisation and the Australian Federal Police over concerns of foreign political interference in the lead-up to a federal election in May.Al Jazeera is Qatar's state-owned broadcaster. The head of its investigative unit who reported the segment, Peter Charley, said the allegation he was acting on behalf of a foreign government were "risible.""We're journalists doing a job," Charley told Reuters by telephone. "The original intention was to infiltrate the NRA. It was only quite late in the game that One Nation came into the frame."Nationalists have struggled to gain a significant voting bloc in Australia's parliament, although One Nation did wield considerable influence in the upper house between 2016 and 2018.The party fractured last year with several resignations, but it is hoping to regroup at the coming national election, with its support base being largely rural voters disillusioned with the major parties which they accuse of being city-focused. AdvertisementSupported byBy The Associated PressCANBERRA, Australia — Australia's prime minister on Tuesday accused an influential minor political party of trying to "sell Australia's gun laws to the highest bidders" by asking the U.S. gun lobby for donations.Prime Minister Scott Morrison was responding to an Al Jazeera documentary that reported One Nation party officials Steve Dickson and James Ashby flew to the United States for meetings with pro-gun interests including the National Rifle Association and political donors Koch Industries in September last year seeking money to undermine Australian gun laws.Dickson and Ashby later told reporters that they had not secured any U.S. money. They also said they had been quoted by Al Jazeera out of context and often after drinking.The trip took place weeks before the Australian Parliament banned foreign political donations with laws that took effect Jan. 1.Morrison said the revelations were reasons why Australians should not vote for One Nation at general elections due in May."We have reports that One Nation officials basically sought to sell Australia's gun laws to the highest bidders to a foreign buyer and I find that abhorrent," Morrison said.Morrison said his government had made laws to "criminalize taking foreign political donations so foreign lobbyists cannot seek to influence our politics."Opposition leader Bill Shorten, whom opinion polls suggest will be prime minister after the election, accused One Nation of a "betrayal of the Australian political system.""The idea of One National political party operatives going to the United States, seeking millions of dollars, promising to water-down gun law protection in Australia — that was absolutely horrifying," Shorten said.The Al Jazeera documentary used secret recordings made by a journalist posing as gun lobbyist Rodger Muller with a hidden camera.One Nation, an anti-Muslim party that had four senators after 2016 election but has been left with two after defections, said in a statement that all party members "have always complied with the law."One Nation also suggested the Qatar-owned Al Jazeera had breached new laws that prohibit covert foreign interference in Australian politics. The party said it had had complained to Australia's main domestic security agency and police "due to concerns of foreign interference into Australian politics in the lead up to the imminent federal election.""Al Jazeera are a state owned propaganda arm of the Qatari government that supports Islamic extremist groups and are not a legitimate media organization," the statement said."One Nation was invited by Rodger Muller, who has now been outed as a foreign agent working for Al Jazeera to meet with the NRA, American business leaders and attend the Congressional Sportsmen's Dinner" in Washington, the statement said.The NRA in a statement late Tuesday said Al Jazeera representatives, disguised as members of a group called "Gun Rights Australia," had set up meetings with NRA employees and brought Australian political party members to those meetings. "At no time did the NRA contribute funding to any Australian political party or Gun Rights Australia," NRA spokeswoman Jennifer Baker said in the statement.Ashby, who is party leader Pauline Hanson's chief of staff, is recorded saying that the party would "own" both the Australian Senate and House of Representatives with a $20 million donation from the U.S. gun lobby. This means the party would hold the balance of power in both chambers and influence a government's legislative agenda.Ashby also warned that if such a donation became public, it would "rock the boat."He told reporters on Tuesday that the U.S. trip had been a fact-finding mission to learn campaign tactics."These conversations with the NRA were to look at nothing more than their techniques. This was not about sourcing money from the NRA. This was about sourcing technology, sourcing an understanding of how they operate, but never was it about seeking $20 million dollars from the NRA," Ashby told reporters.The news followed the mosque attacks in New Zealand on March 15 for which an Australian white supremacist has been charged with murder. New Zealand has responded by banning a range of semi-automatic weapons and foreshadowing a government-funded buyback of newly outlawed guns. The country's response is similar to how Australia strengthened its gun laws following the murders of 35 people by a lone gunman in 1996 in Tasmania.One Nation state president Steve Dickson, who is a Senate candidate at the next election, traveled with Ashby and Muller to the United States to ask for political donations, Al Jazeera reported.Dickon told NRA officials that the Australian gun control model "will poison us all, unless we stop it," Al Jazeera reported.Dickson told reporters on Tuesday he supported Australia's gun laws. He said had not solicited donations in the United States, but conceded his party was not wealthy."I will tell you the absolute, humble truth. When I was asked: 'Do we need money to run election campaigns?' I said: 'Yes,'" Dickson told reporters.A former One Nation senator who is now an independent lawmaker, Fraser Anning, has been widely criticized for blaming Muslim immigration for the New Zealand massacre.Hanson, One Nation's leader who was criticized for wearing a burqa in the Senate, voted for the ban on foreign donations in November.AdvertisementSupported byBy The Associated PressCANBERRA, Australia — Australia's prime minister has accused an influential minor political party of trying to "sell Australia's gun laws to the highest bidders" by asking the U.S. gun lobby for donations.Prime Minister Scott Morrison was responding to an Al Jazeera documentary that reported One Nation party officials Steve Dickson and James Ashby flew to the United States for meetings with pro-gun interests including the National Rifle Association and political donors Koch Industries in September last year seeking money to undermine Australian gun laws.Dickson and Ashby later told reporters that they had not secured any U.S. money. They also said they had been quoted by Al Jazeera out of context and often after drinking.The trip took place weeks before the Australian Parliament banned foreign political donations with laws that took effect Jan. 1.Morrison said the revelations were reasons why Australians should not vote for One Nation at general elections due in May."We have reports that One Nation officials basically sought to sell Australia's gun laws to the highest bidders to a foreign buyer and I find that abhorrent," Morrison said Tuesday.Morrison said his government had made laws to "criminalize taking foreign political donations so foreign lobbyists cannot seek to influence our politics."Opposition leader Bill Shorten, whom opinion polls suggest will be prime minister after the election, accused One Nation of a "betrayal of the Australian political system.""The idea of One National political party operatives going to the United States, seeking millions of dollars, promising to water-down gun law protection in Australia — that was absolutely horrifying," Shorten said.The Al Jazeera documentary used secret recordings made by a journalist posing as gun lobbyist Rodger Muller with a hidden camera.One Nation, an anti-Muslim party that had four senators after 2016 election but has been left with two after defections, said in a statement that all party members "have always complied with the law."One Nation also suggested the Qatar-owned Al Jazeera had breached new laws that prohibit covert foreign interference in Australian politics. The party said it had had complained to Australia's main domestic security agency and police "due to concerns of foreign interference into Australian politics in the lead up to the imminent federal election.""Al Jazeera are a state-owned propaganda arm of the Qatari government that supports Islamic extremist groups and are not a legitimate media organization," the statement said."One Nation was invited by Rodger Muller, who has now been outed as a foreign agent working for Al Jazeera to meet with the NRA, American business leaders and attend the Congressional Sportsmen's Dinner" in Washington, the statement said.Al Jazeera said it stood by its reporting and that its journalists "adhere to the highest standards of professionalism and objectivity.""The suggestion that our staff is involved in espionage is both unfounded and, quite frankly, farcical," it said in a statement. It said it provided One Nation and its leaders "with an opportunity to comment on our evidence prior to broadcast but they declined to do so."The NRA in a statement late Tuesday said Al Jazeera representatives, disguised as members of a group called "Gun Rights Australia," had set up meetings with NRA employees and brought Australian political party members to those meetings. "At no time did the NRA contribute funding to any Australian political party or Gun Rights Australia," NRA spokeswoman Jennifer Baker said in the statement.Ashby, who is party leader Pauline Hanson's chief of staff, is recorded saying that the party would "own" both the Australian Senate and House of Representatives with a $20 million donation from the U.S. gun lobby. This means the party would hold the balance of power in both chambers and influence a government's legislative agenda.Ashby also warned that if such a donation became public, it would "rock the boat."He told reporters on Tuesday that the U.S. trip had been a fact-finding mission to learn campaign tactics."These conversations with the NRA were to look at nothing more than their techniques. This was not about sourcing money from the NRA. This was about sourcing technology, sourcing an understanding of how they operate, but never was it about seeking $20 million dollars from the NRA," Ashby told reporters.The news followed the mosque attacks in New Zealand on March 15 for which an Australian white supremacist has been charged with murder. New Zealand has responded by banning a range of semi-automatic weapons and foreshadowing a government-funded buyback of newly outlawed guns. The country's response is similar to how Australia strengthened its gun laws following the murders of 35 people by a lone gunman in 1996 in Tasmania.One Nation state president Steve Dickson, who is a Senate candidate at the next election, traveled with Ashby and Muller to the United States to ask for political donations, Al Jazeera reported.Dickon told NRA officials that the Australian gun control model "will poison us all, unless we stop it," Al Jazeera reported.Dickson told reporters on Tuesday he supported Australia's gun laws. He said had not solicited donations in the United States, but conceded his party was not wealthy."I will tell you the absolute, humble truth. When I was asked: 'Do we need money to run election campaigns?' I said: 'Yes,'" Dickson told reporters.A former One Nation senator who is now an independent lawmaker, Fraser Anning, has been widely criticized for blaming Muslim immigration for the New Zealand massacre.Hanson, One Nation's leader who was criticized for wearing a burqa in the Senate, voted for the ban on foreign donations in November.AdvertisementSupported byBy ReutersSYDNEY — Australia's nationalist One Nation party allegedly sought millions of dollars from the U.S. gun lobby and discussed weakening the country's strict gun control laws with the U.S. National Rifle Association (NRA), Al Jazeera reported.Posing as the head of a fake Australian pro-gun lobby, Al Jazeera secretly filmed top officials from Pauline Hanson's One Nation allegedly meeting NRA executives in Washington in 2018. It also reported the One Nation officials discussing the possibility of raising A$20 million ($14.22 million) prior to a meeting with a U.S. gun lobby supporter.Concerned about foreign influence in Australian politics, particularly from China, the government introduced laws banning foreign political donations in November last year. The One Nation meetings took place in September."Reports that senior One Nation officials courted foreign political donations from the U.S. gun lobby to influence our elections and undermine our gun laws that keep us safe are deeply concerning," Australian Prime Minister Scott Morrison Tweeted on Tuesday.One Nation confirmed in a statement their two representatives attended the meetings, but there was no evidence in the Al Jazeera TV report, aired late on Monday, that a donation was made.Calls and emails to the NRA headquarters in Virginia were not immediately returned.Australia has some of the world's strictest firearm laws, implemented after a lone gunman killed 35 people at Port Arthur on the island state of Tasmania in 1996.Australia banned semi-automatic weapons, launched a firearm buy-back scheme after the massacre, and imposed strict licensing rules which require weapons to be locked up when not in use.Al Jazeera said the report was three years in the making.In the report, One Nation's chief-of-staff James Ashby and Queensland state leader Steve Dickson can be seen allegedly telling NRA officials that with its help the party could win enough seats to gain the balance of power in Australia's upper house of parliament."We get the balance of power, very simply that means that we have the testicles of the government in our hand at every given stage," says Dickson. "Guns, in the scheme of things, are still going to be the be-all and end-all."In another meeting with a U.S. gun lobby supporter, Dickson says: "It's going to get down to money at the end of the day. We can change the voting system in our country, the way people operate, if we've got the money to do it."Ashby confirmed One Nation had been invited to attend the meetings but he accused Al Jazeera of interfering in Australia's looming national election, due in May."The matter has been referred to ASIO (the Australian Security Intelligence Organisation) and the Australian Federal Police due to concerns of foreign interference into Australian politics in the lead-up to the imminent federal election," Ashby said in the emailed statement.The footage allegedly records an NRA lobbyist telling both Dickson and Ashby that it would benefit the U.S. pro-gun movement if Australia's gun laws were relaxed."That helps us because the biggest argument we get from folks is, 'Well look at Australia'," he says.The role of One Nation in promoting right-wing nationalism in Australia has come under the spotlight in recent days following the killing of 50 Muslims in New Zealand, allegedly by an Australian white supremacist.Nationalists have struggled to gain a significant voting bloc in Australia's parliament, although One Nation did wield considerable influence in the upper house between 2016 and 2018.AdvertisementSupported byLetter 100By Isabella KwaiThis is our 100th Australia Letter. Thanks for reading and subscribing! For our next 100, we’ll be drawing in new writers and new approaches. Sign up to get it by email and tell us what you think: nytaustralia@nytimes.com.___In 2015, Al-Jazeera’s Investigative Unit had a question: what did the National Rifle Association say about mass shootings behind closed doors?To answer it, they planned a lengthy undercover investigation, in which a reporter posed as an Australian gun lobbyist to infiltrate meetings with the NRA and with One Nation, a far-right, anti-immigration party.The result, released in a two part documentary that aired on the Australian Broadcasting Corporation, is — at the very least — compelling.In hidden camera footage shot during a trip to the United States last year, senior figures from One Nation are heard discussing the influence a donation from the American gun lobby could buy in the Australia’s parliament. The cameras also captured advice from the NRA on how to respond to mass shootings and sway public opinion toward gun ownership.Australia has some of the toughest gun laws in the world, and the country is proud of it. So news that a political party’s officials were willing to soften the rules for foreign donations were met with alarm.Since then, Pauline Hanson, the party’s leader, has said the comments were taken out of context — she called Al-Jazeera an “Islamist” organization and a “Middle Eastern foreign agent.” But she also attacked the report’s ethics, calling it an “illegal, covert operation.”Was she at least a little bit right?There are of course many well-known accounts of undercover journalism and like many people, I’ve read them with interest, from Gloria Steinem’s infiltration of Playboy Clubs to Shane Bauer’s stint as an American prison guard.It’s one solution to a challenge all reporters think about: How do you get the information you need from those who don’t want to share?I spoke to two professors about Al-Jazeera’s report, and also asked The New York Times’s standards editor, Phil Corbett, for his views.Phil made clear that according to the Times ethics guide, staff members “should disclose their identity to people they cover” and “may not record conversations without the prior consent of all parties to the conversations.”Exceptions involving sustained deception have been extremely rare, he said.“Overall, we think, this is the best way to insure both fairness to our subjects and credibility with our readers.”That being said, he added, “we recognize that other news organizations have sometimes taken different approaches, and there is a long history of undercover reporting that unearthed important information.”The two professors I interviewed both argued that the story’s main discovery — that an Australian political party was aligning themselves with a controversial lobby group to potentially change policy — was clearly in the public interest.But they also agreed that there were two key areas that raise questions and concerns: The use of hidden cameras and the fact that an undercover reporter became a part of the story.One justification is that the documentary was transparent about its methods, said Andrew Dodd, director for the Centre for Advancing Journalism at the University of Melbourne.“The audience is fully aware of the artifice that was created,” he said. “The audience is therefore able to make an informed decision about what they’re watching.”But to go undercover for so long on this scale is not considered normal reporting “in any way, shape or form,” he added. “This should be a last resort. This has to remain extraordinary journalism that is practiced rarely and only for the very best reasons.”That reason would be to bring truths to the public that would not ever reach them otherwise, he said.He pointed to one moment in the documentary when the NRA discusses their social media strategy after shootings. “You see a glimpse of truth in that moment that you couldn’t get in a two hour debate,” he said.But Peter Greste, a former journalist for Al-Jazeera, now a professor at the University of Queensland, said the story crossed a line in having a reporter broker the meeting between the One Nation party and the NRA.“We are supposed to be observers to the news, not participants,” he said. “It’s inappropriate for journalists to become parts of the story the way they clearly did in this case.”While the findings are “distasteful,” the party was not doing anything illegal, he added.What also raises concerns is the party’s decision to refer Al-Jazeera to the federal police force and Australia’s national security agency, which Mr. Greste called a “dangerous precedent” — the consequences of which he is intimately familiar with.While working for Al-Jazeera in Cairo in 2013, Mr. Greste was arrested and detained by the Egyptian government for terrorism offences. “What happened to us in Egypt was the government using national security to effectively silence the press.”Given the cynicism toward journalism these days, he said, upholding the role of the impartial watchdog to gain public trust is more important than ever: “When you let ethical standards slip then I think we do damage to that support.”So where do you stand on this? How important is ethical reporting to you in the pursuit of stories in the public interest? Shoot us an email at nytaustralia@nytimes.com or join our NYT Australia Facebook group where we’ll be discussing this in detail.Now, onto a selection of the best Times stories of the week!___This week, we continue reporting on Christchurch and bring you a Netflix guide.• Prosecutors Accuse Australian Journalists of Violating Gag Order on Cardinal’s Trial: The journalists could face fines and possibly prison time over the allegations, which stem from Cardinal George Pell’s trial and conviction on sexual abuse charges.• 10 Days After Christchurch Shootings, Jacinda Ardern Announces a Trip to China: The announcement signaled a shift after signs of growing tensions between the two countries.• Mourners Honor Dead With Call To Prayer in Christchurch: “This terrorist sought to tear our nation apart with an evil ideology that has torn the world apart — but instead we have shown that New Zealand is unbreakable,” said one imam.• ‘This Egg Has United People,’ Teenager Says of Protest Against Bigotry: 17-year-old Will Connolly broke his silence on egg-actly what happened and his reaction to his newfound fame. (I had to.)• ’10 Things I Hate About You,’ When Heath Ledger Was Just Breaking Through: An interview with the cast, screenwriters and director of the late 90s rom-com classic.• The Best Movies and TV Shows New to Netflix Australia in April: Making Netflix choices just too easy for you.___Last Friday, Attorney General William P. Barr told congressional leaders that the special counsel, Robert S. Mueller III, has concluded his inquiry into Russian interference in the 2016 election.The investigation found that neither President Trump nor any of his aides conspired with the Russian government, but did not draw conclusions on any obstruction of justice. To catch up on the highlights, read our live briefing here. You can also read a summary of the report here.___Four of our most popular stories of the week.• Adventurous, Alone, Attacked: The number of female solo travelers has skyrocketed, but amid Instagram-worthy escapades are tales of violence and death, raising questions about how the world is greeting women who travel alone.• The Daily Miracle: Finding Magic Inside The Times’s Printing Plant: The photographer Christopher Payne spent two years shooting The Times’s printing plant in College Point, Queens. He captured the craft, precision, and unexpected beauty of the newspaper printing process.• ‘Dog Suicide Bridge’: Why Do So Many Pets Keep Leaping Into a Scottish Gorge?: Scots insist that hundreds of dogs have been mysteriously compelled to throw themselves off a stone bridge.AdvertisementSupported byBy The Associated PressSACRAMENTO, Calif. — It appears the shipment of high-capacity ammunition magazines into California has started for the first time in nearly two decades after a judge tossed out a ban on sales and purchases of the items, the state attorney general said Tuesday.Attorney General Xavier Becerra asked a federal judge to delay implementing the ruling while he appeals it.U.S. District Judge Roger Benitez in San Diego said Friday that a law that bans possessing, buying or selling any magazines holding more than 10 bullets infringes on the Second Amendment right to bear arms.With the ban lifted, even temporarily, Becerra said in a court filing that "there is evidence that sales have begun already."His office cited a Facebook ad from an out-of-state, online dealer saying it will ship the large-capacity magazines to California. The ad urged buyers to be patient because of an expected increase in orders."We are getting prepared to send a whole lot of freedom to our friends in California," reads the post from South Carolina-based Palmetto State Armory. The company did not immediately respond to telephone and email messages.Chuck Michel, an attorney for the NRA and the California Rifle & Pistol Association who filed the lawsuit that led to the ruling, agreed with Becerra that it allows individuals to legally acquire high-capacity magazines."There's dealers advertising them now and there are chat rooms where people are discussing buying them and we're getting calls from dealers asking what's legal to acquire," Michel said."The gray area is, what will the status of these magazines acquired during this window be if the stay is reinstated?" Michel said.If the 9th U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals reinstates the ban and a 2016 law outlawing possession, Michel said, buyers could be legally required to give up their newly acquired high-capacity magazines.However, Becerra warned in his court filing that it would be difficult for the state to remove the magazines, even if the ban is reinstated.Becerra said in a statement that California leads the nation when it comes to gun safety and refuses to go backward.AdvertisementSupported byBy ReutersDENVER — The Colorado legislature on Monday passed a "red flag" bill that would allow those deemed a threat to have their firearms seized, despite opposition by most of the state’s sheriffs and threats of legal challenges.Both chambers of the Democratic-controlled General Assembly approved the measure, sending it to the desk of Governor Jared Polis, also a Democrat, who has indicated his support for the measure.If signed into law, Colorado would become the 15th state to enact similar legislation, also called Extreme Risk Protection Orders, according to a statement from statehouse Democrats.Under the legislation, a family member or law enforcement officer could petition a judge to seize firearms from a person they think is a threat to themselves or others. The judge could then hold a hearing without the targeted person being present and grant a temporary order for 14 days.After the two-week order, both the petitioner and the gun owner could then try to persuade a judge why the firearms should or should not be returned.About 50 of the state’s 62 elected sheriffs oppose the measure, according to Weld County Sheriff Steve Reams, who told Reuters he would not enforce the law because it could put his deputies at risk if they raid a home without prior notice.'UNCHALLENGED STATEMENTS'The Second Amendment to the U.S. Constitution guarantees citizens the right to keep and bear arms. Opponents say the Colorado measure goes too far because it does not allow for a person to be heard in court before a judge issues a gun removal order.“Unchallenged statements made by a petitioner before a judge ... would be sufficient for law enforcement to enter that person’s home and confiscate their private property,” the National Rifle Association (NRA) said in a statement.One of the proposal’s sponsors, House Rep. Tom Sullivan, said he ran for elected office after his son Alex was killed in a mass shooting at a Colorado movie theater in 2012.“This bill will give law enforcement and families the tools that they need to stop tragedies from constantly happening and save lives," said Sullivan, a Democrat.The board of commissioners in heavily-Republican El Paso County passed a resolution last month vowing to "actively resist" the law, including taking legal action, if it is enacted.AdvertisementSupported byBy ReutersWASHINGTON — Maria Butina, who has admitted to working as a Russian agent to infiltrate an influential gun rights group and make inroads with U.S. conservative activists and Republicans, will be sentenced on April 26, U.S. District Judge Tanya Chutkan said on Thursday.Butina, a former graduate student at American University who publicly advocated for gun rights, pleaded guilty in December to one count of conspiring to act as a foreign agent for Russia. She has remained in custody since her arrest in July 2018.The 30-year-old native of Siberia wore a green jail jump suit during the brief hearing in Washington, but said nothing.Chutkan said during the hearing that sentencing memos from prosecutors and Butina's defense team will be due a week before the sentencing date. Prosecutors and defense lawyers approached the bench for a discussion with the judge, but the subject of those talks was not made public.Butina has admitted to conspiring with a Russian official and two Americans from 2015 until her arrest to infiltrate the National Rifle Association and create unofficial lines of communication to try to make Washington's policy toward Moscow more friendly. The NRA is closely aligned with U.S. conservatives and Republican politicians including President Donald Trump.Chutkan in February had delayed the sentencing at the request of prosecutors, who said Butina was cooperating in their ongoing investigation. Butina's attorney, Robert Driscoll, said at the time his client was ready for sentencing.Russia in December accused the United States of forcing Butina to falsely confess to what it described as the "absolutely ridiculous charges" of her being a Russian agent.Court records have pointed to the involvement of several others with Butina's actions including Paul Erickson, a conservative political activist with deep Republican ties who was romantically linked to her. Erickson is referred to as "Person 1" court records, which stated that he helped advise her on which American politicians to target for meetings.Erickson's attorney William Hurd declined to comment.Federal prosecutors in South Dakota have charged Erickson with 11 counts of wire fraud and money laundering unrelated to the case against Butina. Erickson's indictment appeared to make references to her when it said he made a payment of $8,000 to an "M.B." in June 2015 and another payment of $1,000 to "M.B." in March 2017, as well as more than $20,000 to American University in June 2017.Alexander Torshin, who was a deputy governor of Russia's central bank, has been identified as the Russian official involved in Butina's case. AdvertisementSupported byBy The Associated PressSACRAMENTO, Calif. — High-capacity gun magazines will remain legal in California under a ruling Friday by a federal judge who cited home invasions where a woman used the extra bullets in her weapon to kill an attacker while in two other cases women without additional ammunition ran out of bullets."Individual liberty and freedom are not outmoded concepts," San Diego-based U.S. District Judge Roger Benitez wrote as he declared unconstitutional the law that would have banned possessing any magazines holding more than 10 bullets.California law has prohibited buying or selling such magazines since 2000, but those who had them before then were allowed to keep them.In 2016, the Legislature and voters approved a law removing that provision. The California arm of the National Rifle Association sued and Benitez sided with the group's argument that banning the magazines infringes on the Second Amendment right to bear arms.Benitez had temporarily blocked the law from taking effect with a 2017 ruling.Chuck Michel, an attorney for the NRA and the California Rifle & Pistol Association, said the judge's latest ruling may go much farther by striking down the entire ban, allowing individuals to legally acquire high-capacity magazines for the first time in nearly two decades."We're still digesting the opinion but it appears to us that he struck down both the latest ban on possessing by those who are grandfathered in, but also said that everyone has a right to acquire one," Michel said.Attorney General Xavier Becerra said in a statement that his office is "committed to defending California's common sense gun laws" and is reviewing the decision and evaluating its next steps.The goal of the California law is to deter mass-shootings, with Becerra previously listing as an example the terrorist assault that killed 14 and injured 22 in San Bernardino.Benitez, an appointee of Republican President George W. Bush, called such shootings "exceedingly rare" while emphasizing the everyday robberies, rapes and murders he said might be countered with firearms.The Giffords Law Center to Prevent Gun Violence, named after a former congresswoman who survived a mass shooting, is also still evaluating whether the decision applies more broadly, said staff attorney Ari Freilich.But Freilich predicted the "extreme outlier decision" will be overturned on appeal and criticized a judge "so deeply out of touch that he believes mass shootings are a 'very small' problem in this country."Becerra previously said similar Second Amendment challenges have been repeatedly rejected by other courts, with at least seven other states and 11 local governments already restricting the possession or sale of large-capacity magazines. The conflicting decisions may ultimately be sorted out by the U.S. Supreme Court.Benitez ruled that magazines holding more than 10 rounds are "arms" under the U.S. Constitution, and that the California law "burdens the core of the Second Amendment by criminalizing the acquisition and possession of these magazines that are commonly held by law-abiding citizens for defense of self, home, and state."Benitez described three home invasions, two of which ended with the female victims running out of bullets.In the third case, the pajama-clad woman with a high-capacity magazine took on three armed intruders, firing at them while simultaneously calling for help on her phone."She had no place to carry an extra magazine and no way to reload because her left hand held the phone with which she was still trying to call 911," the judge wrote, saying she killed one attacker while two escaped.The magazine ban was included in 2016 legislation that voters strengthened with their approval of Proposition 63, which was championed by then-Lt. Gov. Gavin Newsom.AdvertisementSupported byDAILY CROSSWORD COLUMNRyan McCarty lets us indulge but makes us exercise. Everyone into the pool!By Caitlin LovingerSATURDAY PUZZLE —  I love those puzzles (mostly Sundays, I think) where the theme is a joke that is unfurled over several entries with its punch line at the bottom. We’re themeless today, as usual on a Saturday, but the short stack in the middle of the grid made me laugh, if a bit ruefully, as I mentally joined the four entries. Just don’t take the last line to heart! It’s not about us, it’s some other guy.All four of those phrases are debuts, by the way; Ryan McCarty introduces language to the puzzle at a pretty good clip. I thought most of today’s puzzle was fair but fairly tough, smooth and very witty.I’m modest and slow, so please don’t take this as any sort of humblebrag; it’s more of a comment on what I referred to above, the fairness of a particular puzzle. But as I look at my completed grid, I think there’s only one entry that I had to resort to research to “get,” and it’s a short one, referred to in the title of the post. I was totally stumped by “orange ball.” I got FIVE on crosses and it didn’t occur to me until 3 a.m., or thereabouts, that Mr. McCarty meant the number on the orange ball in billiards. A memorably devious clue.I also really liked the clues for EDIT, BOTANY, RATED R and AROMA. I tend to think of a TASSEL as part of an ear of corn, but technically that’s on the stalk too, so it’s all good and tricky, and I did not know that the “Political Victory Fund” raised money for the NRA. 17A: The spelling here was a little confounding: AR TOO DE TOO (ARTOODETOO? I wouldn’t know how to break this little robot down) seems like he should have two TWOs in his name, for one, and then an R and a D. But this is established and how he’s been clued in the past. It was super cute of Mr. McCarty to run this nearly next to TOOTIE too.55A: This entry was also a first, and so were the other two in this small stack. It made me smile because UDON NOODLE soup has sustained me so well this winter — there are ramen spots popping up all over New York right now. I know ramen isn’t strictly udon, but you can get all types of noodles in these places, in hot broth with vegetables, and it feels very salubrious in the middle of winter. 10D: Car culture is funny; it’s very niche when it’s happening, but goes down in history as integral to the vibe of a whole era. The first thing I think of as typical of 1950s cars is their size, those big chubby Chevrolets and Dodges with whitewall tires, fins, bench seats (it helps that I was recently in Havana and saw dozens of these behemoths chugging through town). Nothing specific comes to mind today, and the answer, TWO TONE CAR, didn’t really either, which goes back to my earlier point. There is a growing number of modern models playing with color schemes, including Minis, Nissans, Toyotas and Volvos — it’s just not something I’ve ever really noticed.14D: I liked this entry; I’d only heard of these hard-boiled eggs as “marble eggs.” They’re strangely transfixing when viewed in a pile, as they appear sometimes as street food, but I’ve never actually tried them. You can make them at home.39D: This is an early week entry when commonly clued as “Lee Harvey ___” or something close to that. I had never heard of Mickey’s precursor, although I have seen cartoons featuring OSWALD the Lucky Rabbit — I’d just always thought that Mickey’s ears had evolved from straight and bunnyish to those little pompoms he has now, and that we’d always been dealing with a mouse. There’s an interesting back story to the rights to Oswald, which were lost back in the 1920s and then regained in 2006 by the Disney Company. I started this one by playing with a number of options at 32-Across and ended up with SCULPTED ABS working out best, and only then after running through a number of more normal options for 33-Down and ending up with the unusual C SCALE. I don’t love this answer as a musician because the scale itself is ambiguous (Major? Minor? Mixolydian?), but it helped pull together the middle. I originally had BAYONETTED for 29-Across before finding that it was more commonly spelled with one T in American English, so I ended up switching to BAYONETING and redoing the NE corner. Unfortunately, there weren’t as many stellar fill options here, so I threw in TEA EGG for some interest. I’m sure the critics will love it.Overall the editing team did a good job tempering my clues, some of which I’ll admit were a bit too difficult. I was sad to see a couple of my favorite clues go, including “One-man band?” for ID BRACELET, and “Public display of confection” for DESSERT CASE, but I’m glad they kept my unassuming clue for MEN. Hope you enjoy!Subscribers can take a peek at the answer key. AdvertisementSupported byBy Remy Tumin and Hiroko Masuike(Want to get this briefing by email? Here’s the sign-up.) Good evening. Here’s the latest.1. President Trump took his case for a wall to El Paso, where there is one.His rally was his first event along the border since a debate over funding a wall shut down the government. Negotiations to head off another shutdown appeared to be close to succeeding on Monday night.In a twist of political theater, Beto O’Rourke, below, a former Democratic congressman from El Paso and possible presidential candidate, spoke at a rally less than a mile from Mr. Trump’s.Ahead of the events, people across the political spectrum in El Paso had a message for the president: Don’t speak for us._____2. “Anti-Semitism is real and I am grateful for Jewish allies and colleagues who are educating me on the painful history of anti-Semitic tropes.”That was Representative Ilhan Omar, a freshman congresswoman from Minnesota, seen above two weeks ago. She had come under fire from Speaker Nancy Pelosi and the entire House Democratic leadership for insinuating on Twitter that American support for Israel was fueled by money from a pro-Israel lobbying group.She did not back away from her contention that the lobbying group, the American Israel Public Affairs Committee, has too much power in Washington. “At the same time, I reaffirm the problematic role of lobbyists in our politics, whether it be AIPAC, the NRA or the fossil fuel industry,” her statement said._____3. A Virginia Democrat’s push to begin impeachment proceedings against Lt. Gov. Justin Fairfax stalled after furious opposition from the party’s black caucus.They insist there not be a rush to oust Mr. Fairfax, who is black, over accusations of sexual assault while the state’s white governor and attorney general are refusing to resign after they admitted wearing blackface in their youth.Mr. Fairfax entered the legislative building around 11:30 a.m. this morning, made his way to the Senate chambers through a scrum of TV cameras, repeated that he had “called for an independent investigation,” adding: “I am still very confident in the truth.” And went to work, above._____4. Shrill, abrasive, aloof, unlikable.Some of the adjectives used to describe Hillary Clinton during her 2016 presidential campaign are now bubbling up in uncharted territory: a presidential race featuring six women running for the Democratic nomination.Few people admit they would hesitate to vote for a woman for president, but they don’t have to. We took a look at how sexism plays out on the campaign trail.And we have closer looks at two senators among the six: Amy Klobuchar of Minnesota, above, who joined the race Sunday, and Kamala Harris, whose record as a former district attorney and California attorney general faces a chorus of critics — especially on the left._____5. Assisting the doctor: A.I. In a new study, researchers from universities in the U.S. and China built a highly accurate system that could automatically diagnose common childhood conditions — including influenza and meningitis — after analyzing the patient’s symptoms, medical records, lab results and other clinical data.The system used a neural network, a breed of artificial intelligence, to digest the electronic health records from more than 1.3 million patient visits at a pediatric hospital in China. Above, doctors competed against A.I. computers to recognize illnesses during a competition in Beijing last year.Able to recognize patterns in data that humans could never identify on their own — and might not be able to understand — A.I. could assist doctors in diagnosing complex conditions, potentially transforming the health care industry and reducing the chances of misdiagnoses.In other A.I. news, President Trump signed an executive order meant to spur the development and regulation of artificial intelligence._____6. Brandi Carlile gave a thrilling performance. Drake showed up (though his acceptance speech got cut off). Alicia Keys was a laid-back host (and deftly played two pianos at once).We rounded up the best and worst of the Grammys, according to our music critics. At a ceremony dominated by female performers and presenters, Kacey Musgraves won album of the year for “Golden Hour,” as well as three other awards. Cardi B, above, became the first woman to win best rap album as a solo artist for “Invasion of Privacy.” Here’s the complete list of winners.From Cardi B on the half shell to Michelle Obama in a silver lounge suit and a barefoot Alicia Keys, women were front and center, our fashion critic writes. (The embedded slide show has all the red carpet looks.)This year’s award ceremony was perhaps as notable for who didn’t show up as who did, our pop music critic suggests._____7. The accusations against Уscar Arias Sбnchez, a former president of Costa Rica and Nobel laureate, are mounting. Above, Mr. Arias last month.Yazmнn Morales is one of at least nine women who have now come forward with accounts of sexual assault or misconduct.Telling her story was hard. Finding a lawyer to take the case was harder, revealing the social and political obstacles facing women in the region when they seek legal recourse, even in Latin America’s most significant #MeToo case.And our Interpreter column examines why the movement has made little headway in curbing abuses by ordinary men._____8. For New Yorkers who hate the subway, and anyone who likes to hate New York, this one’s for you.A portrait of subway hell in words and images, drawn from commuters’ tweets.Accessibility is a key issue. There are 550,000 New York residents who have difficulty walking. Our analysis found that two-thirds of them live far from an accessible subway station.And from Tokyo to Zurich, readers told us how New York’s subway compares with the public transportation in their cities (spoiler alert: not well)._____9. “It’s almost like heavenly visual music.”That’s Trond Trondsen of Calgary, an expert on the aurora borealis. He grew up in Norway fascinated by the mysterious light display, and he’s not alone. Seeing it has become a must for camera-toting international tourists, whether in Russia, Alaska, Greenland or Scandinavia.The sight can prove to be elusive, if ultimately rewarding, our writer found during a trip to northern Sweden, above. “It’s just a matter of waiting for the cosmic show,” she writes._____10. Finally, we end the day with some very good dogs.When we began digitizing six million photos in the Times archive, it quickly became apparent that while people and places changed, the dogs stayed very much the same, providing the kind of reliable delight they now deliver on Instagram scrolls. Above, a man and his dog driving down Fifth Avenue in New York in 1977.As the Westminster Kennel Club Dog Show kicks off, we assembled a panel of dog fans — from the Times staff to artists and animal trainers — to examine the everlasting obsession. “Dogs are just really pure,” one panelist said.Good luck to all the groups and breeds! We’ll see you Tuesday night when best in show is awarded.Have a winning night._____Your Evening Briefing is posted at 6 p.m. Eastern.And don’t miss Your Morning Briefing. Sign up here to get it by email in the Australian, Asian, European or American morning.Want to catch up on past briefings? You can browse them here.AdvertisementSupported byCRITIC’S pICKThe artist dances with wolves, and hunters, in his new film “Redoubt,” shot in his native Idaho. It’s the most emancipated work of his career. By Jason FaragoNEW HAVEN — Two parallel homecomings give shape to “Redoubt,” the much anticipated and unexpectedly nimble new project that Matthew Barney debuted here earlier this month. One is to Yale University, where Mr. Barney, class of 1989, began to merge ornery sculpture made with plastics and Vaseline with athletic performances and perplexing symbolism. Thirty years after graduating, the artist elected to present his newest project on the campus where he made his first mature work, in which the undergraduate would dangle from his studio walls or climb naked at Yale’s cathedral-like gym.The other homecoming is to central Idaho, where the artist grew up. As usual with Mr. Barney — whose epic “Cremaster” cycle (1994-2002) introduced a whole generation to the sexual potential of bees, rams, racecars and the Chrysler building — “Redoubt” combines sculptures, drawings and performances with a feature-length film that itself generates new artworks. Mr. Barney has filmed in Idaho before: The Busby Berkeley revue of “Cremaster 1” (1995) takes place on a blue Boise football field, while “River of Fundament” (2014), his six-hour noble failure of excrement-slicked reincarnation, features a poetic coda of salmon spawning in an Idaho river.But “Redoubt” is rooted, unlike those expansive works, in a single place: the remote, rugged Sawtooth Mountains, the landscape of Mr. Barney’s childhood. It also speaks more directly to contemporary American themes: the place of the gun, the fate of the environment and the fantasies and paranoias of those who turn their back on constitutional government and American society.Lighter, freer and a little more conventional than usual, it is Mr. Barney’s most engrossing film in over a decade. Mr. Barney appears only in a supporting role, and he now seems especially eager to embrace collaboration and improvisation, notably via dance, a fascinating addition to his cinematic techniques. It’s certainly less visually striking than the “Cremaster” cycle and “River of Fundament.” But I love the new, more open Mr. Barney of “Redoubt,” which the Yale University Art Gallery is screening on Saturday afternoons and at a few other times, alongside an exhibition of large bronze and brass sculptures and strange electroplated engravings inspired by the film. (The show travels afterward to Beijing, then London.)“Redoubt” has a cast of just six, and draws its structure partly from the tale in Ovid’s “Metamorphoses” of Diana, the chaste goddess of the hunt, and Actaeon, a doomed young hero who spies on her. Diana, here, is a hunter living off the grid in Idaho, attended by two dancing Virgins and clad in the military-grade camouflage favored by some anti-government types in the American west. (The film’s title alludes to American Redoubt, a far-right survivalist movement in the region.) We first see Diana crafting her own bullets out of the same bronze and brass Mr. Barney uses in his sculptures, against the awesome backdrop of Idaho’s snow-covered mountains. Diana is played by Anette Wachter, a world-champion sharpshooter who does her own marksmanship in the film; she is also a prolific gun blogger, and recently told the magazine NRA Family, “I can’t express how much I love being involved in the gun industry and culture.”Diana is hunting an elusive gray wolf, one of many returning to the Sawtooth Mountains after near-extinction, thanks to a federal government effort that drew strong opposition from the livestock industry, as well as hunters. The effort took place when Mr. Barney was a boy. Whatever its symbolic import in “Redoubt” (and Mr. Barney gives us plenty to work with, notably shots of the constellation Lupus), the wolf is also a living embodiment of the clash between Washington and anti-statist Idaho communities whose libertarianism comes in both mild and extremist strains. This project’s Diana is an American original, and hunts not as divine action but from political convictions.“Redoubt” tracks Diana and her two Virgins in search of their prey. (The cinematography is by Mr. Barney’s longtime collaborator Peter Strietmann, who pictures the mountains in a breathtaking palette of steely blues and grays, though he relies too much on drone shots that have already become travel-dad YouTube clichйs.) The only other human up in the mountains is an Engraver, played by Mr. Barney with a bushy white beard, who observes the women at a distance and etches their hunt on sheets of copper. His character is an artist, but also a federal employee: Note the United States Forest Service patch on his ski cap and green jacket.Each day, he drives to the trailer home of an Electroplater (played by K.J. Holmes, a renowned dance artist). She dunks his copper etchings in chemical baths, and, with the help of rudimentary batteries, coats them with a new metal crust. The etchings appear, transformed, in the exhibition here at Yale: pictures of Diana, of wolves and of the Idaho mountains that are encrusted with metal nodules and scorched in places after too long in the chemical bath.The show also includes a few larger-scale sculptures cast from fallen trees, which have much in common with the explosive bronze splashes made at the time of “River of Fundament” and seen at the Museum of Contemporary Art in Los Angeles. But it’s the electroplated etchings, sometimes daintily figurative and sometimes scarred into abstraction, that most fully express the aims of “Redoubt,” reflecting an artist seeking newer, freer shores. That freedom extends to another medium: dance. The revelation of “Redoubt” is Eleanor Bauer, who plays one of Diana’s two Virgins and choreographed the bulk of the film’s movement. (Like most of Mr. Barney’s films — except “River of Fundament,” in which Ms. Bauer also appears — this one has no dialogue.) She and Laura Stokes, playing the other Virgin, communicate through gesture and performance as they hunt. The women roll their legs over snow banks, writhe in a hammock and balance their weight against each other while bathing in a hot spring.  One even strings the other from a tree with climber’s rope, lifting her like a lupine carcass. In another dance sequence, Sandra Lamouche, a performer of the Bigstone Cree Nation, executes a hoop dance in an abandoned American Legion hall. Her brief appearance reaffirms that, where so much of Mr. Barney’s earlier work sought to disrupt binary understandings of identity, “Redoubt” is mostly focused on white bodies, and how white Americans live, colonize and kill in one of the continent’s most exquisite ecosystems.Ms. Bauer’s choreography draws heavily on Steve Paxton’s practice of contact improvisation, in which dancers respond to and anticipate each other’s motions. There are echoes, too, of Trish Brown’s gravity-defying dances with ropes and harnesses — especially when Ms. Bauer climbs a huge charred tree and splays her body horizontally. This stunning image of Ms. Bauer rigged in a climber’s harness, suspended hundreds of feet up in the Idaho air, has almost none of the mythopoetic baggage that weighed down “River of Fundament.” “Redoubt” plants itself in a place and time when the promises of democratic participation are unraveling, and where “prepper” fantasies of societal collapse intertwine with more justified fears of ecological degradation. And these more immediate concerns have produced a different sort of film, less awesome but more urgent, in which the bodies on screen find an unexpected freedom.This new work may therefore have less in common with “Cremaster” and “River of Fundament” than with the most primordial Barney works: his decades-long “Drawing Restraint” series, in which the artist draws on walls while dragging weights or while tethered by bungee cords. (The first of them took place in 1987, here at Yale.) It turns out that Ms. Bauer has also recently executed new phases of “Drawing Restraint,” at Mr. Barney’s invitation. In those works and this one, Mr. Barney seems to be forging a more emancipated kind of collaboration, more trusting that another body can replace his own.AdvertisementSupported byBy The Associated PressBOISE, Idaho — The recent revelation that National Rifle Association representatives had met with Australian politicians to discuss talking points after a mass shooting generated outrage from various politicians.The reality is that the NRA has been exerting its influence on gun debates outside the U.S. for a number of years, exporting its firebrand rhetoric and belief that more guns will lead to less crime.The lobbying group has sought sway at the United Nations to make it easier to sell American guns overseas and has on more than one occasion guided gun-rights groups in Brazil, Canada, Australia and elsewhere. It advised gun activists in Russia, entanglements that in recent years made the NRA vulnerable to allegations it allowed alleged Russian operatives to use the organization to influence American politics.While American gun rights are enshrined in the U.S. Constitution — something that doesn't translate to most countries around the world — the group's track record of aggressively shaping the debate has nevertheless turned it into the go-to group for other gun-rights activists outside the U.S.There are several reasons why the NRA doesn't confine itself to the U.S.For one, it's helpful to American gun makers if other countries make it easier for citizens to buy and possess firearms, opening up new markets. And when other countries ease restrictions, it helps bolster one of the NRA's most prominent messages."They can make the argument, you know, 'Look, other nations don't like stricter gun laws either,' because one of the debate points that has hurt the NRA is that pretty much every other democratic nation has stricter gun laws than us and lower gun ownership," said Robert J. Spitzer, chairman of political science at the State University of New York at Cortland and a longtime watcher of the NRA.A documentary aired last month by Al Jazeera reported officials with Australia's far-right One Nation party met with two NRA representatives and other gun-rights advocates seeking money to undermine Australian gun laws. During the meeting, captured on video by an undercover journalist posing as a gun lobbyist, they ask the NRA officials for advice on how to respond after a mass shooting. They're told to start with silence and then if it persists, to go on the offensive.The NRA said it met with the Australians but did not provide any of the requested money sought at the meeting.The NRA has a long overseas track record.Perhaps its biggest success has been in Brazil, where the NRA worked with activists to help reject a referendum in 2005 that would have banned the sale of firearms and ammunition to civilians.Working with gun-rights activists in that country, the NRA helped shape the debate. A turning point, some observers have said, was a television ad that flashed scenes from key moments in history: Tiananmen Square, the fall of the Berlin Wall, Nelson Mandela's release from prison. The ad emphasized gun rights as a fundamental right to freedom and liberty.Brazil has a low rate of gun ownership — an estimated 2 million among its 59 million residents — and gun control was backed by the Roman Catholic Church and other powerful forces in the country. One poll a month before the referendum put support for it at a stunning 73 percent. It was rejected handily.Brazil suffers from high crime rates, especially in the poor areas around big cities, and what resonated were the NRA messages that are familiar to Americans: Owning a gun is a fundamental right of freedom, and if good guys have their guns taken away, only criminals will still have them.Canada's own gun-rights movement has been closely tied to the NRA since the 1990s. In the decades since, NRA leaders have traveled to the country to warn that gun restrictions would interfere with a citizen's right to bear arms, though that country does not consider it a constitutional right.When Canada first sought to restrict gun access in the 1990s, the NRA threatened a boycott by American hunters spending tourism dollars in the country.The NRA also has worked closely to advise such groups as the Canadian Shooting Sports Association on how to lobby against that country's registry of gun owners. It took more than a decade but Canada's gun registry was ultimately repealed in 2012.Gun-control advocates weren't surprised to hear the NRA's advice heard in the Al-Jazeera video on how to respond to mass shootings."It's the two-step playbook: It's one, silence, and two, if the pressure gets too hot, to deflect by arguing that we shouldn't politicize a shooting by talking about policies that could prevent these shootings from happening in the future," said Peter Ambler, executive director of the gun-control group named after former Congresswoman Gabby Giffords, who was seriously injured after being shot during a constituent meeting in 2011.AdvertisementSupported byLetter 100By Isabella KwaiThis is our 100th Australia Letter. Thanks for reading and subscribing! For our next 100, we’ll be drawing in new writers and new approaches. Sign up to get it by email and tell us what you think: nytaustralia@nytimes.com.___In 2015, Al-Jazeera’s Investigative Unit had a question: what did the National Rifle Association say about mass shootings behind closed doors?To answer it, they planned a lengthy undercover investigation, in which a reporter posed as an Australian gun lobbyist to infiltrate meetings with the NRA and with One Nation, a far-right, anti-immigration party.The result, released in a two part documentary that aired on the Australian Broadcasting Corporation, is — at the very least — compelling.In hidden camera footage shot during a trip to the United States last year, senior figures from One Nation are heard discussing the influence a donation from the American gun lobby could buy in the Australia’s parliament. The cameras also captured advice from the NRA on how to respond to mass shootings and sway public opinion toward gun ownership.Australia has some of the toughest gun laws in the world, and the country is proud of it. So news that a political party’s officials were willing to soften the rules for foreign donations were met with alarm.Since then, Pauline Hanson, the party’s leader, has said the comments were taken out of context — she called Al-Jazeera an “Islamist” organization and a “Middle Eastern foreign agent.” But she also attacked the report’s ethics, calling it an “illegal, covert operation.”Was she at least a little bit right?There are of course many well-known accounts of undercover journalism and like many people, I’ve read them with interest, from Gloria Steinem’s infiltration of Playboy Clubs to Shane Bauer’s stint as an American prison guard.It’s one solution to a challenge all reporters think about: How do you get the information you need from those who don’t want to share?I spoke to two professors about Al-Jazeera’s report, and also asked The New York Times’s standards editor, Phil Corbett, for his views.Phil made clear that according to the Times ethics guide, staff members “should disclose their identity to people they cover” and “may not record conversations without the prior consent of all parties to the conversations.”Exceptions involving sustained deception have been extremely rare, he said.“Overall, we think, this is the best way to insure both fairness to our subjects and credibility with our readers.”That being said, he added, “we recognize that other news organizations have sometimes taken different approaches, and there is a long history of undercover reporting that unearthed important information.”The two professors I interviewed both argued that the story’s main discovery — that an Australian political party was aligning themselves with a controversial lobby group to potentially change policy — was clearly in the public interest.But they also agreed that there were two key areas that raise questions and concerns: The use of hidden cameras and the fact that an undercover reporter became a part of the story.One justification is that the documentary was transparent about its methods, said Andrew Dodd, director for the Centre for Advancing Journalism at the University of Melbourne.“The audience is fully aware of the artifice that was created,” he said. “The audience is therefore able to make an informed decision about what they’re watching.”But to go undercover for so long on this scale is not considered normal reporting “in any way, shape or form,” he added. “This should be a last resort. This has to remain extraordinary journalism that is practiced rarely and only for the very best reasons.”That reason would be to bring truths to the public that would not ever reach them otherwise, he said.He pointed to one moment in the documentary when the NRA discusses their social media strategy after shootings. “You see a glimpse of truth in that moment that you couldn’t get in a two hour debate,” he said.But Peter Greste, a former journalist for Al-Jazeera, now a professor at the University of Queensland, said the story crossed a line in having a reporter broker the meeting between the One Nation party and the NRA.“We are supposed to be observers to the news, not participants,” he said. “It’s inappropriate for journalists to become parts of the story the way they clearly did in this case.”While the findings are “distasteful,” the party was not doing anything illegal, he added.What also raises concerns is the party’s decision to refer Al-Jazeera to the federal police force and Australia’s national security agency, which Mr. Greste called a “dangerous precedent” — the consequences of which he is intimately familiar with.While working for Al-Jazeera in Cairo in 2013, Mr. Greste was arrested and detained by the Egyptian government for terrorism offences. “What happened to us in Egypt was the government using national security to effectively silence the press.”Given the cynicism toward journalism these days, he said, upholding the role of the impartial watchdog to gain public trust is more important than ever: “When you let ethical standards slip then I think we do damage to that support.”So where do you stand on this? How important is ethical reporting to you in the pursuit of stories in the public interest? Shoot us an email at nytaustralia@nytimes.com or join our NYT Australia Facebook group where we’ll be discussing this in detail.Now, onto a selection of the best Times stories of the week!___This week, we continue reporting on Christchurch and bring you a Netflix guide.• Prosecutors Accuse Australian Journalists of Violating Gag Order on Cardinal’s Trial: The journalists could face fines and possibly prison time over the allegations, which stem from Cardinal George Pell’s trial and conviction on sexual abuse charges.• 10 Days After Christchurch Shootings, Jacinda Ardern Announces a Trip to China: The announcement signaled a shift after signs of growing tensions between the two countries.• Mourners Honor Dead With Call To Prayer in Christchurch: “This terrorist sought to tear our nation apart with an evil ideology that has torn the world apart — but instead we have shown that New Zealand is unbreakable,” said one imam.• ‘This Egg Has United People,’ Teenager Says of Protest Against Bigotry: 17-year-old Will Connolly broke his silence on egg-actly what happened and his reaction to his newfound fame. (I had to.)• ’10 Things I Hate About You,’ When Heath Ledger Was Just Breaking Through: An interview with the cast, screenwriters and director of the late 90s rom-com classic.• The Best Movies and TV Shows New to Netflix Australia in April: Making Netflix choices just too easy for you.___Last Friday, Attorney General William P. Barr told congressional leaders that the special counsel, Robert S. Mueller III, has concluded his inquiry into Russian interference in the 2016 election.The investigation found that neither President Trump nor any of his aides conspired with the Russian government, but did not draw conclusions on any obstruction of justice. To catch up on the highlights, read our live briefing here. You can also read a summary of the report here.___Four of our most popular stories of the week.• Adventurous, Alone, Attacked: The number of female solo travelers has skyrocketed, but amid Instagram-worthy escapades are tales of violence and death, raising questions about how the world is greeting women who travel alone.• The Daily Miracle: Finding Magic Inside The Times’s Printing Plant: The photographer Christopher Payne spent two years shooting The Times’s printing plant in College Point, Queens. He captured the craft, precision, and unexpected beauty of the newspaper printing process.• ‘Dog Suicide Bridge’: Why Do So Many Pets Keep Leaping Into a Scottish Gorge?: Scots insist that hundreds of dogs have been mysteriously compelled to throw themselves off a stone bridge.AdvertisementSupported byBy The Associated PressSACRAMENTO, Calif. — It appears the shipment of high-capacity ammunition magazines into California has started for the first time in nearly two decades after a judge tossed out a ban on sales and purchases of the items, the state attorney general said Tuesday.Attorney General Xavier Becerra asked a federal judge to delay implementing the ruling while he appeals it.U.S. District Judge Roger Benitez in San Diego said Friday that a law that bans possessing, buying or selling any magazines holding more than 10 bullets infringes on the Second Amendment right to bear arms.With the ban lifted, even temporarily, Becerra said in a court filing that "there is evidence that sales have begun already."His office cited a Facebook ad from an out-of-state, online dealer saying it will ship the large-capacity magazines to California. The ad urged buyers to be patient because of an expected increase in orders."We are getting prepared to send a whole lot of freedom to our friends in California," reads the post from South Carolina-based Palmetto State Armory. The company did not immediately respond to telephone and email messages.Chuck Michel, an attorney for the NRA and the California Rifle & Pistol Association who filed the lawsuit that led to the ruling, agreed with Becerra that it allows individuals to legally acquire high-capacity magazines."There's dealers advertising them now and there are chat rooms where people are discussing buying them and we're getting calls from dealers asking what's legal to acquire," Michel said."The gray area is, what will the status of these magazines acquired during this window be if the stay is reinstated?" Michel said.If the 9th U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals reinstates the ban and a 2016 law outlawing possession, Michel said, buyers could be legally required to give up their newly acquired high-capacity magazines.However, Becerra warned in his court filing that it would be difficult for the state to remove the magazines, even if the ban is reinstated.Becerra said in a statement that California leads the nation when it comes to gun safety and refuses to go backward.AdvertisementSupported byBy ReutersDENVER — The Colorado legislature on Monday passed a "red flag" bill that would allow those deemed a threat to have their firearms seized, despite opposition by most of the state’s sheriffs and threats of legal challenges.Both chambers of the Democratic-controlled General Assembly approved the measure, sending it to the desk of Governor Jared Polis, also a Democrat, who has indicated his support for the measure.If signed into law, Colorado would become the 15th state to enact similar legislation, also called Extreme Risk Protection Orders, according to a statement from statehouse Democrats.Under the legislation, a family member or law enforcement officer could petition a judge to seize firearms from a person they think is a threat to themselves or others. The judge could then hold a hearing without the targeted person being present and grant a temporary order for 14 days.After the two-week order, both the petitioner and the gun owner could then try to persuade a judge why the firearms should or should not be returned.About 50 of the state’s 62 elected sheriffs oppose the measure, according to Weld County Sheriff Steve Reams, who told Reuters he would not enforce the law because it could put his deputies at risk if they raid a home without prior notice.'UNCHALLENGED STATEMENTS'The Second Amendment to the U.S. Constitution guarantees citizens the right to keep and bear arms. Opponents say the Colorado measure goes too far because it does not allow for a person to be heard in court before a judge issues a gun removal order.“Unchallenged statements made by a petitioner before a judge ... would be sufficient for law enforcement to enter that person’s home and confiscate their private property,” the National Rifle Association (NRA) said in a statement.One of the proposal’s sponsors, House Rep. Tom Sullivan, said he ran for elected office after his son Alex was killed in a mass shooting at a Colorado movie theater in 2012.“This bill will give law enforcement and families the tools that they need to stop tragedies from constantly happening and save lives," said Sullivan, a Democrat.The board of commissioners in heavily-Republican El Paso County passed a resolution last month vowing to "actively resist" the law, including taking legal action, if it is enacted.AdvertisementSupported byDAILY CROSSWORD COLUMNRyan McCarty lets us indulge but makes us exercise. Everyone into the pool!By Caitlin LovingerSATURDAY PUZZLE —  I love those puzzles (mostly Sundays, I think) where the theme is a joke that is unfurled over several entries with its punch line at the bottom. We’re themeless today, as usual on a Saturday, but the short stack in the middle of the grid made me laugh, if a bit ruefully, as I mentally joined the four entries. Just don’t take the last line to heart! It’s not about us, it’s some other guy.All four of those phrases are debuts, by the way; Ryan McCarty introduces language to the puzzle at a pretty good clip. I thought most of today’s puzzle was fair but fairly tough, smooth and very witty.I’m modest and slow, so please don’t take this as any sort of humblebrag; it’s more of a comment on what I referred to above, the fairness of a particular puzzle. But as I look at my completed grid, I think there’s only one entry that I had to resort to research to “get,” and it’s a short one, referred to in the title of the post. I was totally stumped by “orange ball.” I got FIVE on crosses and it didn’t occur to me until 3 a.m., or thereabouts, that Mr. McCarty meant the number on the orange ball in billiards. A memorably devious clue.I also really liked the clues for EDIT, BOTANY, RATED R and AROMA. I tend to think of a TASSEL as part of an ear of corn, but technically that’s on the stalk too, so it’s all good and tricky, and I did not know that the “Political Victory Fund” raised money for the NRA. 17A: The spelling here was a little confounding: AR TOO DE TOO (ARTOODETOO? I wouldn’t know how to break this little robot down) seems like he should have two TWOs in his name, for one, and then an R and a D. But this is established and how he’s been clued in the past. It was super cute of Mr. McCarty to run this nearly next to TOOTIE too.55A: This entry was also a first, and so were the other two in this small stack. It made me smile because UDON NOODLE soup has sustained me so well this winter — there are ramen spots popping up all over New York right now. I know ramen isn’t strictly udon, but you can get all types of noodles in these places, in hot broth with vegetables, and it feels very salubrious in the middle of winter. 10D: Car culture is funny; it’s very niche when it’s happening, but goes down in history as integral to the vibe of a whole era. The first thing I think of as typical of 1950s cars is their size, those big chubby Chevrolets and Dodges with whitewall tires, fins, bench seats (it helps that I was recently in Havana and saw dozens of these behemoths chugging through town). Nothing specific comes to mind today, and the answer, TWO TONE CAR, didn’t really either, which goes back to my earlier point. There is a growing number of modern models playing with color schemes, including Minis, Nissans, Toyotas and Volvos — it’s just not something I’ve ever really noticed.14D: I liked this entry; I’d only heard of these hard-boiled eggs as “marble eggs.” They’re strangely transfixing when viewed in a pile, as they appear sometimes as street food, but I’ve never actually tried them. You can make them at home.39D: This is an early week entry when commonly clued as “Lee Harvey ___” or something close to that. I had never heard of Mickey’s precursor, although I have seen cartoons featuring OSWALD the Lucky Rabbit — I’d just always thought that Mickey’s ears had evolved from straight and bunnyish to those little pompoms he has now, and that we’d always been dealing with a mouse. There’s an interesting back story to the rights to Oswald, which were lost back in the 1920s and then regained in 2006 by the Disney Company. I started this one by playing with a number of options at 32-Across and ended up with SCULPTED ABS working out best, and only then after running through a number of more normal options for 33-Down and ending up with the unusual C SCALE. I don’t love this answer as a musician because the scale itself is ambiguous (Major? Minor? Mixolydian?), but it helped pull together the middle. I originally had BAYONETTED for 29-Across before finding that it was more commonly spelled with one T in American English, so I ended up switching to BAYONETING and redoing the NE corner. Unfortunately, there weren’t as many stellar fill options here, so I threw in TEA EGG for some interest. I’m sure the critics will love it.Overall the editing team did a good job tempering my clues, some of which I’ll admit were a bit too difficult. I was sad to see a couple of my favorite clues go, including “One-man band?” for ID BRACELET, and “Public display of confection” for DESSERT CASE, but I’m glad they kept my unassuming clue for MEN. Hope you enjoy!Subscribers can take a peek at the answer key. AdvertisementSupported byBy Remy Tumin and Hiroko Masuike(Want to get this briefing by email? Here’s the sign-up.) Good evening. Here’s the latest.1. President Trump took his case for a wall to El Paso, where there is one.His rally was his first event along the border since a debate over funding a wall shut down the government. Negotiations to head off another shutdown appeared to be close to succeeding on Monday night.In a twist of political theater, Beto O’Rourke, below, a former Democratic congressman from El Paso and possible presidential candidate, spoke at a rally less than a mile from Mr. Trump’s.Ahead of the events, people across the political spectrum in El Paso had a message for the president: Don’t speak for us._____2. “Anti-Semitism is real and I am grateful for Jewish allies and colleagues who are educating me on the painful history of anti-Semitic tropes.”That was Representative Ilhan Omar, a freshman congresswoman from Minnesota, seen above two weeks ago. She had come under fire from Speaker Nancy Pelosi and the entire House Democratic leadership for insinuating on Twitter that American support for Israel was fueled by money from a pro-Israel lobbying group.She did not back away from her contention that the lobbying group, the American Israel Public Affairs Committee, has too much power in Washington. “At the same time, I reaffirm the problematic role of lobbyists in our politics, whether it be AIPAC, the NRA or the fossil fuel industry,” her statement said._____3. A Virginia Democrat’s push to begin impeachment proceedings against Lt. Gov. Justin Fairfax stalled after furious opposition from the party’s black caucus.They insist there not be a rush to oust Mr. Fairfax, who is black, over accusations of sexual assault while the state’s white governor and attorney general are refusing to resign after they admitted wearing blackface in their youth.Mr. Fairfax entered the legislative building around 11:30 a.m. this morning, made his way to the Senate chambers through a scrum of TV cameras, repeated that he had “called for an independent investigation,” adding: “I am still very confident in the truth.” And went to work, above._____4. Shrill, abrasive, aloof, unlikable.Some of the adjectives used to describe Hillary Clinton during her 2016 presidential campaign are now bubbling up in uncharted territory: a presidential race featuring six women running for the Democratic nomination.Few people admit they would hesitate to vote for a woman for president, but they don’t have to. We took a look at how sexism plays out on the campaign trail.And we have closer looks at two senators among the six: Amy Klobuchar of Minnesota, above, who joined the race Sunday, and Kamala Harris, whose record as a former district attorney and California attorney general faces a chorus of critics — especially on the left._____5. Assisting the doctor: A.I. In a new study, researchers from universities in the U.S. and China built a highly accurate system that could automatically diagnose common childhood conditions — including influenza and meningitis — after analyzing the patient’s symptoms, medical records, lab results and other clinical data.The system used a neural network, a breed of artificial intelligence, to digest the electronic health records from more than 1.3 million patient visits at a pediatric hospital in China. Above, doctors competed against A.I. computers to recognize illnesses during a competition in Beijing last year.Able to recognize patterns in data that humans could never identify on their own — and might not be able to understand — A.I. could assist doctors in diagnosing complex conditions, potentially transforming the health care industry and reducing the chances of misdiagnoses.In other A.I. news, President Trump signed an executive order meant to spur the development and regulation of artificial intelligence._____6. Brandi Carlile gave a thrilling performance. Drake showed up (though his acceptance speech got cut off). Alicia Keys was a laid-back host (and deftly played two pianos at once).We rounded up the best and worst of the Grammys, according to our music critics. At a ceremony dominated by female performers and presenters, Kacey Musgraves won album of the year for “Golden Hour,” as well as three other awards. Cardi B, above, became the first woman to win best rap album as a solo artist for “Invasion of Privacy.” Here’s the complete list of winners.From Cardi B on the half shell to Michelle Obama in a silver lounge suit and a barefoot Alicia Keys, women were front and center, our fashion critic writes. (The embedded slide show has all the red carpet looks.)This year’s award ceremony was perhaps as notable for who didn’t show up as who did, our pop music critic suggests._____7. The accusations against Уscar Arias Sбnchez, a former president of Costa Rica and Nobel laureate, are mounting. Above, Mr. Arias last month.Yazmнn Morales is one of at least nine women who have now come forward with accounts of sexual assault or misconduct.Telling her story was hard. Finding a lawyer to take the case was harder, revealing the social and political obstacles facing women in the region when they seek legal recourse, even in Latin America’s most significant #MeToo case.And our Interpreter column examines why the movement has made little headway in curbing abuses by ordinary men._____8. For New Yorkers who hate the subway, and anyone who likes to hate New York, this one’s for you.A portrait of subway hell in words and images, drawn from commuters’ tweets.Accessibility is a key issue. There are 550,000 New York residents who have difficulty walking. Our analysis found that two-thirds of them live far from an accessible subway station.And from Tokyo to Zurich, readers told us how New York’s subway compares with the public transportation in their cities (spoiler alert: not well)._____9. “It’s almost like heavenly visual music.”That’s Trond Trondsen of Calgary, an expert on the aurora borealis. He grew up in Norway fascinated by the mysterious light display, and he’s not alone. Seeing it has become a must for camera-toting international tourists, whether in Russia, Alaska, Greenland or Scandinavia.The sight can prove to be elusive, if ultimately rewarding, our writer found during a trip to northern Sweden, above. “It’s just a matter of waiting for the cosmic show,” she writes._____10. Finally, we end the day with some very good dogs.When we began digitizing six million photos in the Times archive, it quickly became apparent that while people and places changed, the dogs stayed very much the same, providing the kind of reliable delight they now deliver on Instagram scrolls. Above, a man and his dog driving down Fifth Avenue in New York in 1977.As the Westminster Kennel Club Dog Show kicks off, we assembled a panel of dog fans — from the Times staff to artists and animal trainers — to examine the everlasting obsession. “Dogs are just really pure,” one panelist said.Good luck to all the groups and breeds! We’ll see you Tuesday night when best in show is awarded.Have a winning night._____Your Evening Briefing is posted at 6 p.m. Eastern.And don’t miss Your Morning Briefing. Sign up here to get it by email in the Australian, Asian, European or American morning.Want to catch up on past briefings? You can browse them here.AdvertisementSupported byCRITIC’S pICKThe artist dances with wolves, and hunters, in his new film “Redoubt,” shot in his native Idaho. It’s the most emancipated work of his career. By Jason FaragoNEW HAVEN — Two parallel homecomings give shape to “Redoubt,” the much anticipated and unexpectedly nimble new project that Matthew Barney debuted here earlier this month. One is to Yale University, where Mr. Barney, class of 1989, began to merge ornery sculpture made with plastics and Vaseline with athletic performances and perplexing symbolism. Thirty years after graduating, the artist elected to present his newest project on the campus where he made his first mature work, in which the undergraduate would dangle from his studio walls or climb naked at Yale’s cathedral-like gym.The other homecoming is to central Idaho, where the artist grew up. As usual with Mr. Barney — whose epic “Cremaster” cycle (1994-2002) introduced a whole generation to the sexual potential of bees, rams, racecars and the Chrysler building — “Redoubt” combines sculptures, drawings and performances with a feature-length film that itself generates new artworks. Mr. Barney has filmed in Idaho before: The Busby Berkeley revue of “Cremaster 1” (1995) takes place on a blue Boise football field, while “River of Fundament” (2014), his six-hour noble failure of excrement-slicked reincarnation, features a poetic coda of salmon spawning in an Idaho river.But “Redoubt” is rooted, unlike those expansive works, in a single place: the remote, rugged Sawtooth Mountains, the landscape of Mr. Barney’s childhood. It also speaks more directly to contemporary American themes: the place of the gun, the fate of the environment and the fantasies and paranoias of those who turn their back on constitutional government and American society.Lighter, freer and a little more conventional than usual, it is Mr. Barney’s most engrossing film in over a decade. Mr. Barney appears only in a supporting role, and he now seems especially eager to embrace collaboration and improvisation, notably via dance, a fascinating addition to his cinematic techniques. It’s certainly less visually striking than the “Cremaster” cycle and “River of Fundament.” But I love the new, more open Mr. Barney of “Redoubt,” which the Yale University Art Gallery is screening on Saturday afternoons and at a few other times, alongside an exhibition of large bronze and brass sculptures and strange electroplated engravings inspired by the film. (The show travels afterward to Beijing, then London.)“Redoubt” has a cast of just six, and draws its structure partly from the tale in Ovid’s “Metamorphoses” of Diana, the chaste goddess of the hunt, and Actaeon, a doomed young hero who spies on her. Diana, here, is a hunter living off the grid in Idaho, attended by two dancing Virgins and clad in the military-grade camouflage favored by some anti-government types in the American west. (The film’s title alludes to American Redoubt, a far-right survivalist movement in the region.) We first see Diana crafting her own bullets out of the same bronze and brass Mr. Barney uses in his sculptures, against the awesome backdrop of Idaho’s snow-covered mountains. Diana is played by Anette Wachter, a world-champion sharpshooter who does her own marksmanship in the film; she is also a prolific gun blogger, and recently told the magazine NRA Family, “I can’t express how much I love being involved in the gun industry and culture.”Diana is hunting an elusive gray wolf, one of many returning to the Sawtooth Mountains after near-extinction, thanks to a federal government effort that drew strong opposition from the livestock industry, as well as hunters. The effort took place when Mr. Barney was a boy. Whatever its symbolic import in “Redoubt” (and Mr. Barney gives us plenty to work with, notably shots of the constellation Lupus), the wolf is also a living embodiment of the clash between Washington and anti-statist Idaho communities whose libertarianism comes in both mild and extremist strains. This project’s Diana is an American original, and hunts not as divine action but from political convictions.“Redoubt” tracks Diana and her two Virgins in search of their prey. (The cinematography is by Mr. Barney’s longtime collaborator Peter Strietmann, who pictures the mountains in a breathtaking palette of steely blues and grays, though he relies too much on drone shots that have already become travel-dad YouTube clichйs.) The only other human up in the mountains is an Engraver, played by Mr. Barney with a bushy white beard, who observes the women at a distance and etches their hunt on sheets of copper. His character is an artist, but also a federal employee: Note the United States Forest Service patch on his ski cap and green jacket.Each day, he drives to the trailer home of an Electroplater (played by K.J. Holmes, a renowned dance artist). She dunks his copper etchings in chemical baths, and, with the help of rudimentary batteries, coats them with a new metal crust. The etchings appear, transformed, in the exhibition here at Yale: pictures of Diana, of wolves and of the Idaho mountains that are encrusted with metal nodules and scorched in places after too long in the chemical bath.The show also includes a few larger-scale sculptures cast from fallen trees, which have much in common with the explosive bronze splashes made at the time of “River of Fundament” and seen at the Museum of Contemporary Art in Los Angeles. But it’s the electroplated etchings, sometimes daintily figurative and sometimes scarred into abstraction, that most fully express the aims of “Redoubt,” reflecting an artist seeking newer, freer shores. That freedom extends to another medium: dance. The revelation of “Redoubt” is Eleanor Bauer, who plays one of Diana’s two Virgins and choreographed the bulk of the film’s movement. (Like most of Mr. Barney’s films — except “River of Fundament,” in which Ms. Bauer also appears — this one has no dialogue.) She and Laura Stokes, playing the other Virgin, communicate through gesture and performance as they hunt. The women roll their legs over snow banks, writhe in a hammock and balance their weight against each other while bathing in a hot spring.  One even strings the other from a tree with climber’s rope, lifting her like a lupine carcass. In another dance sequence, Sandra Lamouche, a performer of the Bigstone Cree Nation, executes a hoop dance in an abandoned American Legion hall. Her brief appearance reaffirms that, where so much of Mr. Barney’s earlier work sought to disrupt binary understandings of identity, “Redoubt” is mostly focused on white bodies, and how white Americans live, colonize and kill in one of the continent’s most exquisite ecosystems.Ms. Bauer’s choreography draws heavily on Steve Paxton’s practice of contact improvisation, in which dancers respond to and anticipate each other’s motions. There are echoes, too, of Trish Brown’s gravity-defying dances with ropes and harnesses — especially when Ms. Bauer climbs a huge charred tree and splays her body horizontally. This stunning image of Ms. Bauer rigged in a climber’s harness, suspended hundreds of feet up in the Idaho air, has almost none of the mythopoetic baggage that weighed down “River of Fundament.” “Redoubt” plants itself in a place and time when the promises of democratic participation are unraveling, and where “prepper” fantasies of societal collapse intertwine with more justified fears of ecological degradation. And these more immediate concerns have produced a different sort of film, less awesome but more urgent, in which the bodies on screen find an unexpected freedom.This new work may therefore have less in common with “Cremaster” and “River of Fundament” than with the most primordial Barney works: his decades-long “Drawing Restraint” series, in which the artist draws on walls while dragging weights or while tethered by bungee cords. (The first of them took place in 1987, here at Yale.) It turns out that Ms. Bauer has also recently executed new phases of “Drawing Restraint,” at Mr. Barney’s invitation. In those works and this one, Mr. Barney seems to be forging a more emancipated kind of collaboration, more trusting that another body can replace his own.AdvertisementSupported byBy The Associated PressBOISE, Idaho — The recent revelation that National Rifle Association representatives had met with Australian politicians to discuss talking points after a mass shooting generated outrage from various politicians.The reality is that the NRA has been exerting its influence on gun debates outside the U.S. for a number of years, exporting its firebrand rhetoric and belief that more guns will lead to less crime.The lobbying group has sought sway at the United Nations to make it easier to sell American guns overseas and has on more than one occasion guided gun-rights groups in Brazil, Canada, Australia and elsewhere. It advised gun activists in Russia, entanglements that in recent years made the NRA vulnerable to allegations it allowed alleged Russian operatives to use the organization to influence American politics.While American gun rights are enshrined in the U.S. Constitution — something that doesn't translate to most countries around the world — the group's track record of aggressively shaping the debate has nevertheless turned it into the go-to group for other gun-rights activists outside the U.S.There are several reasons why the NRA doesn't confine itself to the U.S.For one, it's helpful to American gun makers if other countries make it easier for citizens to buy and possess firearms, opening up new markets. And when other countries ease restrictions, it helps bolster one of the NRA's most prominent messages."They can make the argument, you know, 'Look, other nations don't like stricter gun laws either,' because one of the debate points that has hurt the NRA is that pretty much every other democratic nation has stricter gun laws than us and lower gun ownership," said Robert J. Spitzer, chairman of political science at the State University of New York at Cortland and a longtime watcher of the NRA.A documentary aired last month by Al Jazeera reported officials with Australia's far-right One Nation party met with two NRA representatives and other gun-rights advocates seeking money to undermine Australian gun laws. During the meeting, captured on video by an undercover journalist posing as a gun lobbyist, they ask the NRA officials for advice on how to respond after a mass shooting. They're told to start with silence and then if it persists, to go on the offensive.The NRA said it met with the Australians but did not provide any of the requested money sought at the meeting.The NRA has a long overseas track record.Perhaps its biggest success has been in Brazil, where the NRA worked with activists to help reject a referendum in 2005 that would have banned the sale of firearms and ammunition to civilians.Working with gun-rights activists in that country, the NRA helped shape the debate. A turning point, some observers have said, was a television ad that flashed scenes from key moments in history: Tiananmen Square, the fall of the Berlin Wall, Nelson Mandela's release from prison. The ad emphasized gun rights as a fundamental right to freedom and liberty.Brazil has a low rate of gun ownership — an estimated 2 million among its more than 200 million residents — and gun control was backed by the Roman Catholic Church and other powerful forces in the country. One poll a month before the referendum put support for it at a stunning 73 percent. It was rejected handily.Brazil suffers from high crime rates, especially in the poor areas around big cities, and what resonated were the NRA messages that are familiar to Americans: Owning a gun is a fundamental right of freedom, and if good guys have their guns taken away, only criminals will still have them.Canada's own gun-rights movement has been closely tied to the NRA since the 1990s. In the decades since, NRA leaders have traveled to the country to warn that gun restrictions would interfere with a citizen's right to bear arms, though that country does not consider it a constitutional right.When Canada first sought to restrict gun access in the 1990s, the NRA threatened a boycott by American hunters spending tourism dollars in the country.The NRA also has worked closely to advise such groups as the Canadian Shooting Sports Association on how to lobby against that country's registry of gun owners. It took more than a decade but Canada's gun registry was ultimately repealed in 2012.Gun-control advocates weren't surprised to hear the NRA's advice heard in the Al-Jazeera video on how to respond to mass shootings."It's the two-step playbook: It's one, silence, and two, if the pressure gets too hot, to deflect by arguing that we shouldn't politicize a shooting by talking about policies that could prevent these shootings from happening in the future," said Peter Ambler, executive director of the gun-control group named after former Congresswoman Gabby Giffords, who was seriously injured after being shot during a constituent meeting in 2011.Gun-rights supporters viewed it differently."While it came across on the Al Jazeera clips as manipulative, it's Defense 101 and I don't think it's unreasonable at all," said Jeff Knox, an NRA member and director of the Firearms Coalition, adding: "It is such a difficult situation because you're damned if you do and damned if you don't. When some horrific act is perpetrated by some deviant, if you immediately come out and say something in defense or support of the right to arms, then you're heartless and you're politicizing this tragic event. But at the same time, the other side does not hesitate to jump out."AdvertisementSupported byLetter 100By Isabella KwaiThis is our 100th Australia Letter. Thanks for reading and subscribing! For our next 100, we’ll be drawing in new writers and new approaches. Sign up to get it by email and tell us what you think: nytaustralia@nytimes.com.___In 2015, Al-Jazeera’s Investigative Unit had a question: what did the National Rifle Association say about mass shootings behind closed doors?To answer it, they planned a lengthy undercover investigation, in which a reporter posed as an Australian gun lobbyist to infiltrate meetings with the NRA and with One Nation, a far-right, anti-immigration party.The result, released in a two part documentary that aired on the Australian Broadcasting Corporation, is — at the very least — compelling.In hidden camera footage shot during a trip to the United States last year, senior figures from One Nation are heard discussing the influence a donation from the American gun lobby could buy in the Australia’s parliament. The cameras also captured advice from the NRA on how to respond to mass shootings and sway public opinion toward gun ownership.Australia has some of the toughest gun laws in the world, and the country is proud of it. So news that a political party’s officials were willing to soften the rules for foreign donations were met with alarm.Since then, Pauline Hanson, the party’s leader, has said the comments were taken out of context — she called Al-Jazeera an “Islamist” organization and a “Middle Eastern foreign agent.” But she also attacked the report’s ethics, calling it an “illegal, covert operation.”Was she at least a little bit right?There are of course many well-known accounts of undercover journalism and like many people, I’ve read them with interest, from Gloria Steinem’s infiltration of Playboy Clubs to Shane Bauer’s stint as an American prison guard.It’s one solution to a challenge all reporters think about: How do you get the information you need from those who don’t want to share?I spoke to two professors about Al-Jazeera’s report, and also asked The New York Times’s standards editor, Phil Corbett, for his views.Phil made clear that according to the Times ethics guide, staff members “should disclose their identity to people they cover” and “may not record conversations without the prior consent of all parties to the conversations.”Exceptions involving sustained deception have been extremely rare, he said.“Overall, we think, this is the best way to insure both fairness to our subjects and credibility with our readers.”That being said, he added, “we recognize that other news organizations have sometimes taken different approaches, and there is a long history of undercover reporting that unearthed important information.”The two professors I interviewed both argued that the story’s main discovery — that an Australian political party was aligning themselves with a controversial lobby group to potentially change policy — was clearly in the public interest.But they also agreed that there were two key areas that raise questions and concerns: The use of hidden cameras and the fact that an undercover reporter became a part of the story.One justification is that the documentary was transparent about its methods, said Andrew Dodd, director for the Centre for Advancing Journalism at the University of Melbourne.“The audience is fully aware of the artifice that was created,” he said. “The audience is therefore able to make an informed decision about what they’re watching.”But to go undercover for so long on this scale is not considered normal reporting “in any way, shape or form,” he added. “This should be a last resort. This has to remain extraordinary journalism that is practiced rarely and only for the very best reasons.”That reason would be to bring truths to the public that would not ever reach them otherwise, he said.He pointed to one moment in the documentary when the NRA discusses their social media strategy after shootings. “You see a glimpse of truth in that moment that you couldn’t get in a two hour debate,” he said.But Peter Greste, a former journalist for Al-Jazeera, now a professor at the University of Queensland, said the story crossed a line in having a reporter broker the meeting between the One Nation party and the NRA.“We are supposed to be observers to the news, not participants,” he said. “It’s inappropriate for journalists to become parts of the story the way they clearly did in this case.”While the findings are “distasteful,” the party was not doing anything illegal, he added.What also raises concerns is the party’s decision to refer Al-Jazeera to the federal police force and Australia’s national security agency, which Mr. Greste called a “dangerous precedent” — the consequences of which he is intimately familiar with.While working for Al-Jazeera in Cairo in 2013, Mr. Greste was arrested and detained by the Egyptian government for terrorism offences. “What happened to us in Egypt was the government using national security to effectively silence the press.”Given the cynicism toward journalism these days, he said, upholding the role of the impartial watchdog to gain public trust is more important than ever: “When you let ethical standards slip then I think we do damage to that support.”So where do you stand on this? How important is ethical reporting to you in the pursuit of stories in the public interest? Shoot us an email at nytaustralia@nytimes.com or join our NYT Australia Facebook group where we’ll be discussing this in detail.Now, onto a selection of the best Times stories of the week!___This week, we continue reporting on Christchurch and bring you a Netflix guide.• Prosecutors Accuse Australian Journalists of Violating Gag Order on Cardinal’s Trial: The journalists could face fines and possibly prison time over the allegations, which stem from Cardinal George Pell’s trial and conviction on sexual abuse charges.• 10 Days After Christchurch Shootings, Jacinda Ardern Announces a Trip to China: The announcement signaled a shift after signs of growing tensions between the two countries.• Mourners Honor Dead With Call To Prayer in Christchurch: “This terrorist sought to tear our nation apart with an evil ideology that has torn the world apart — but instead we have shown that New Zealand is unbreakable,” said one imam.• ‘This Egg Has United People,’ Teenager Says of Protest Against Bigotry: 17-year-old Will Connolly broke his silence on egg-actly what happened and his reaction to his newfound fame. (I had to.)• ’10 Things I Hate About You,’ When Heath Ledger Was Just Breaking Through: An interview with the cast, screenwriters and director of the late 90s rom-com classic.• The Best Movies and TV Shows New to Netflix Australia in April: Making Netflix choices just too easy for you.___Last Friday, Attorney General William P. Barr told congressional leaders that the special counsel, Robert S. Mueller III, has concluded his inquiry into Russian interference in the 2016 election.The investigation found that neither President Trump nor any of his aides conspired with the Russian government, but did not draw conclusions on any obstruction of justice. To catch up on the highlights, read our live briefing here. You can also read a summary of the report here.___Four of our most popular stories of the week.• Adventurous, Alone, Attacked: The number of female solo travelers has skyrocketed, but amid Instagram-worthy escapades are tales of violence and death, raising questions about how the world is greeting women who travel alone.• The Daily Miracle: Finding Magic Inside The Times’s Printing Plant: The photographer Christopher Payne spent two years shooting The Times’s printing plant in College Point, Queens. He captured the craft, precision, and unexpected beauty of the newspaper printing process.• ‘Dog Suicide Bridge’: Why Do So Many Pets Keep Leaping Into a Scottish Gorge?: Scots insist that hundreds of dogs have been mysteriously compelled to throw themselves off a stone bridge.AdvertisementSupported byBy The Associated PressSACRAMENTO, Calif. — It appears the shipment of high-capacity ammunition magazines into California has started for the first time in nearly two decades after a judge tossed out a ban on sales and purchases of the items, the state attorney general said Tuesday.Attorney General Xavier Becerra asked a federal judge to delay implementing the ruling while he appeals it.U.S. District Judge Roger Benitez in San Diego said Friday that a law that bans possessing, buying or selling any magazines holding more than 10 bullets infringes on the Second Amendment right to bear arms.With the ban lifted, even temporarily, Becerra said in a court filing that "there is evidence that sales have begun already."His office cited a Facebook ad from an out-of-state, online dealer saying it will ship the large-capacity magazines to California. The ad urged buyers to be patient because of an expected increase in orders."We are getting prepared to send a whole lot of freedom to our friends in California," reads the post from South Carolina-based Palmetto State Armory. The company did not immediately respond to telephone and email messages.Chuck Michel, an attorney for the NRA and the California Rifle & Pistol Association who filed the lawsuit that led to the ruling, agreed with Becerra that it allows individuals to legally acquire high-capacity magazines."There's dealers advertising them now and there are chat rooms where people are discussing buying them and we're getting calls from dealers asking what's legal to acquire," Michel said."The gray area is, what will the status of these magazines acquired during this window be if the stay is reinstated?" Michel said.If the 9th U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals reinstates the ban and a 2016 law outlawing possession, Michel said, buyers could be legally required to give up their newly acquired high-capacity magazines.However, Becerra warned in his court filing that it would be difficult for the state to remove the magazines, even if the ban is reinstated.Becerra said in a statement that California leads the nation when it comes to gun safety and refuses to go backward.AdvertisementSupported byDAILY CROSSWORD COLUMNRyan McCarty lets us indulge but makes us exercise. Everyone into the pool!By Caitlin LovingerSATURDAY PUZZLE —  I love those puzzles (mostly Sundays, I think) where the theme is a joke that is unfurled over several entries with its punch line at the bottom. We’re themeless today, as usual on a Saturday, but the short stack in the middle of the grid made me laugh, if a bit ruefully, as I mentally joined the four entries. Just don’t take the last line to heart! It’s not about us, it’s some other guy.All four of those phrases are debuts, by the way; Ryan McCarty introduces language to the puzzle at a pretty good clip. I thought most of today’s puzzle was fair but fairly tough, smooth and very witty.I’m modest and slow, so please don’t take this as any sort of humblebrag; it’s more of a comment on what I referred to above, the fairness of a particular puzzle. But as I look at my completed grid, I think there’s only one entry that I had to resort to research to “get,” and it’s a short one, referred to in the title of the post. I was totally stumped by “orange ball.” I got FIVE on crosses and it didn’t occur to me until 3 a.m., or thereabouts, that Mr. McCarty meant the number on the orange ball in billiards. A memorably devious clue.I also really liked the clues for EDIT, BOTANY, RATED R and AROMA. I tend to think of a TASSEL as part of an ear of corn, but technically that’s on the stalk too, so it’s all good and tricky, and I did not know that the “Political Victory Fund” raised money for the NRA. 17A: The spelling here was a little confounding: AR TOO DE TOO (ARTOODETOO? I wouldn’t know how to break this little robot down) seems like he should have two TWOs in his name, for one, and then an R and a D. But this is established and how he’s been clued in the past. It was super cute of Mr. McCarty to run this nearly next to TOOTIE too.55A: This entry was also a first, and so were the other two in this small stack. It made me smile because UDON NOODLE soup has sustained me so well this winter — there are ramen spots popping up all over New York right now. I know ramen isn’t strictly udon, but you can get all types of noodles in these places, in hot broth with vegetables, and it feels very salubrious in the middle of winter. 10D: Car culture is funny; it’s very niche when it’s happening, but goes down in history as integral to the vibe of a whole era. The first thing I think of as typical of 1950s cars is their size, those big chubby Chevrolets and Dodges with whitewall tires, fins, bench seats (it helps that I was recently in Havana and saw dozens of these behemoths chugging through town). Nothing specific comes to mind today, and the answer, TWO TONE CAR, didn’t really either, which goes back to my earlier point. There is a growing number of modern models playing with color schemes, including Minis, Nissans, Toyotas and Volvos — it’s just not something I’ve ever really noticed.14D: I liked this entry; I’d only heard of these hard-boiled eggs as “marble eggs.” They’re strangely transfixing when viewed in a pile, as they appear sometimes as street food, but I’ve never actually tried them. You can make them at home.39D: This is an early week entry when commonly clued as “Lee Harvey ___” or something close to that. I had never heard of Mickey’s precursor, although I have seen cartoons featuring OSWALD the Lucky Rabbit — I’d just always thought that Mickey’s ears had evolved from straight and bunnyish to those little pompoms he has now, and that we’d always been dealing with a mouse. There’s an interesting back story to the rights to Oswald, which were lost back in the 1920s and then regained in 2006 by the Disney Company. I started this one by playing with a number of options at 32-Across and ended up with SCULPTED ABS working out best, and only then after running through a number of more normal options for 33-Down and ending up with the unusual C SCALE. I don’t love this answer as a musician because the scale itself is ambiguous (Major? Minor? Mixolydian?), but it helped pull together the middle. I originally had BAYONETTED for 29-Across before finding that it was more commonly spelled with one T in American English, so I ended up switching to BAYONETING and redoing the NE corner. Unfortunately, there weren’t as many stellar fill options here, so I threw in TEA EGG for some interest. I’m sure the critics will love it.Overall the editing team did a good job tempering my clues, some of which I’ll admit were a bit too difficult. I was sad to see a couple of my favorite clues go, including “One-man band?” for ID BRACELET, and “Public display of confection” for DESSERT CASE, but I’m glad they kept my unassuming clue for MEN. Hope you enjoy!Subscribers can take a peek at the answer key. AdvertisementSupported byBy Remy Tumin and Hiroko Masuike(Want to get this briefing by email? Here’s the sign-up.) Good evening. Here’s the latest.1. President Trump took his case for a wall to El Paso, where there is one.His rally was his first event along the border since a debate over funding a wall shut down the government. Negotiations to head off another shutdown appeared to be close to succeeding on Monday night.In a twist of political theater, Beto O’Rourke, below, a former Democratic congressman from El Paso and possible presidential candidate, spoke at a rally less than a mile from Mr. Trump’s.Ahead of the events, people across the political spectrum in El Paso had a message for the president: Don’t speak for us._____2. “Anti-Semitism is real and I am grateful for Jewish allies and colleagues who are educating me on the painful history of anti-Semitic tropes.”That was Representative Ilhan Omar, a freshman congresswoman from Minnesota, seen above two weeks ago. She had come under fire from Speaker Nancy Pelosi and the entire House Democratic leadership for insinuating on Twitter that American support for Israel was fueled by money from a pro-Israel lobbying group.She did not back away from her contention that the lobbying group, the American Israel Public Affairs Committee, has too much power in Washington. “At the same time, I reaffirm the problematic role of lobbyists in our politics, whether it be AIPAC, the NRA or the fossil fuel industry,” her statement said._____3. A Virginia Democrat’s push to begin impeachment proceedings against Lt. Gov. Justin Fairfax stalled after furious opposition from the party’s black caucus.They insist there not be a rush to oust Mr. Fairfax, who is black, over accusations of sexual assault while the state’s white governor and attorney general are refusing to resign after they admitted wearing blackface in their youth.Mr. Fairfax entered the legislative building around 11:30 a.m. this morning, made his way to the Senate chambers through a scrum of TV cameras, repeated that he had “called for an independent investigation,” adding: “I am still very confident in the truth.” And went to work, above._____4. Shrill, abrasive, aloof, unlikable.Some of the adjectives used to describe Hillary Clinton during her 2016 presidential campaign are now bubbling up in uncharted territory: a presidential race featuring six women running for the Democratic nomination.Few people admit they would hesitate to vote for a woman for president, but they don’t have to. We took a look at how sexism plays out on the campaign trail.And we have closer looks at two senators among the six: Amy Klobuchar of Minnesota, above, who joined the race Sunday, and Kamala Harris, whose record as a former district attorney and California attorney general faces a chorus of critics — especially on the left._____5. Assisting the doctor: A.I. In a new study, researchers from universities in the U.S. and China built a highly accurate system that could automatically diagnose common childhood conditions — including influenza and meningitis — after analyzing the patient’s symptoms, medical records, lab results and other clinical data.The system used a neural network, a breed of artificial intelligence, to digest the electronic health records from more than 1.3 million patient visits at a pediatric hospital in China. Above, doctors competed against A.I. computers to recognize illnesses during a competition in Beijing last year.Able to recognize patterns in data that humans could never identify on their own — and might not be able to understand — A.I. could assist doctors in diagnosing complex conditions, potentially transforming the health care industry and reducing the chances of misdiagnoses.In other A.I. news, President Trump signed an executive order meant to spur the development and regulation of artificial intelligence._____6. Brandi Carlile gave a thrilling performance. Drake showed up (though his acceptance speech got cut off). Alicia Keys was a laid-back host (and deftly played two pianos at once).We rounded up the best and worst of the Grammys, according to our music critics. At a ceremony dominated by female performers and presenters, Kacey Musgraves won album of the year for “Golden Hour,” as well as three other awards. Cardi B, above, became the first woman to win best rap album as a solo artist for “Invasion of Privacy.” Here’s the complete list of winners.From Cardi B on the half shell to Michelle Obama in a silver lounge suit and a barefoot Alicia Keys, women were front and center, our fashion critic writes. (The embedded slide show has all the red carpet looks.)This year’s award ceremony was perhaps as notable for who didn’t show up as who did, our pop music critic suggests._____7. The accusations against Уscar Arias Sбnchez, a former president of Costa Rica and Nobel laureate, are mounting. Above, Mr. Arias last month.Yazmнn Morales is one of at least nine women who have now come forward with accounts of sexual assault or misconduct.Telling her story was hard. Finding a lawyer to take the case was harder, revealing the social and political obstacles facing women in the region when they seek legal recourse, even in Latin America’s most significant #MeToo case.And our Interpreter column examines why the movement has made little headway in curbing abuses by ordinary men._____8. For New Yorkers who hate the subway, and anyone who likes to hate New York, this one’s for you.A portrait of subway hell in words and images, drawn from commuters’ tweets.Accessibility is a key issue. There are 550,000 New York residents who have difficulty walking. Our analysis found that two-thirds of them live far from an accessible subway station.And from Tokyo to Zurich, readers told us how New York’s subway compares with the public transportation in their cities (spoiler alert: not well)._____9. “It’s almost like heavenly visual music.”That’s Trond Trondsen of Calgary, an expert on the aurora borealis. He grew up in Norway fascinated by the mysterious light display, and he’s not alone. Seeing it has become a must for camera-toting international tourists, whether in Russia, Alaska, Greenland or Scandinavia.The sight can prove to be elusive, if ultimately rewarding, our writer found during a trip to northern Sweden, above. “It’s just a matter of waiting for the cosmic show,” she writes._____10. Finally, we end the day with some very good dogs.When we began digitizing six million photos in the Times archive, it quickly became apparent that while people and places changed, the dogs stayed very much the same, providing the kind of reliable delight they now deliver on Instagram scrolls. Above, a man and his dog driving down Fifth Avenue in New York in 1977.As the Westminster Kennel Club Dog Show kicks off, we assembled a panel of dog fans — from the Times staff to artists and animal trainers — to examine the everlasting obsession. “Dogs are just really pure,” one panelist said.Good luck to all the groups and breeds! We’ll see you Tuesday night when best in show is awarded.Have a winning night._____Your Evening Briefing is posted at 6 p.m. Eastern.And don’t miss Your Morning Briefing. Sign up here to get it by email in the Australian, Asian, European or American morning.Want to catch up on past briefings? You can browse them here.AdvertisementSupported byCRITIC’S pICKThe artist dances with wolves, and hunters, in his new film “Redoubt,” shot in his native Idaho. It’s the most emancipated work of his career. By Jason FaragoNEW HAVEN — Two parallel homecomings give shape to “Redoubt,” the much anticipated and unexpectedly nimble new project that Matthew Barney debuted here earlier this month. One is to Yale University, where Mr. Barney, class of 1989, began to merge ornery sculpture made with plastics and Vaseline with athletic performances and perplexing symbolism. Thirty years after graduating, the artist elected to present his newest project on the campus where he made his first mature work, in which the undergraduate would dangle from his studio walls or climb naked at Yale’s cathedral-like gym.The other homecoming is to central Idaho, where the artist grew up. As usual with Mr. Barney — whose epic “Cremaster” cycle (1994-2002) introduced a whole generation to the sexual potential of bees, rams, racecars and the Chrysler building — “Redoubt” combines sculptures, drawings and performances with a feature-length film that itself generates new artworks. Mr. Barney has filmed in Idaho before: The Busby Berkeley revue of “Cremaster 1” (1995) takes place on a blue Boise football field, while “River of Fundament” (2014), his six-hour noble failure of excrement-slicked reincarnation, features a poetic coda of salmon spawning in an Idaho river.But “Redoubt” is rooted, unlike those expansive works, in a single place: the remote, rugged Sawtooth Mountains, the landscape of Mr. Barney’s childhood. It also speaks more directly to contemporary American themes: the place of the gun, the fate of the environment and the fantasies and paranoias of those who turn their back on constitutional government and American society.Lighter, freer and a little more conventional than usual, it is Mr. Barney’s most engrossing film in over a decade. Mr. Barney appears only in a supporting role, and he now seems especially eager to embrace collaboration and improvisation, notably via dance, a fascinating addition to his cinematic techniques. It’s certainly less visually striking than the “Cremaster” cycle and “River of Fundament.” But I love the new, more open Mr. Barney of “Redoubt,” which the Yale University Art Gallery is screening on Saturday afternoons and at a few other times, alongside an exhibition of large bronze and brass sculptures and strange electroplated engravings inspired by the film. (The show travels afterward to Beijing, then London.)“Redoubt” has a cast of just six, and draws its structure partly from the tale in Ovid’s “Metamorphoses” of Diana, the chaste goddess of the hunt, and Actaeon, a doomed young hero who spies on her. Diana, here, is a hunter living off the grid in Idaho, attended by two dancing Virgins and clad in the military-grade camouflage favored by some anti-government types in the American west. (The film’s title alludes to American Redoubt, a far-right survivalist movement in the region.) We first see Diana crafting her own bullets out of the same bronze and brass Mr. Barney uses in his sculptures, against the awesome backdrop of Idaho’s snow-covered mountains. Diana is played by Anette Wachter, a world-champion sharpshooter who does her own marksmanship in the film; she is also a prolific gun blogger, and recently told the magazine NRA Family, “I can’t express how much I love being involved in the gun industry and culture.”Diana is hunting an elusive gray wolf, one of many returning to the Sawtooth Mountains after near-extinction, thanks to a federal government effort that drew strong opposition from the livestock industry, as well as hunters. The effort took place when Mr. Barney was a boy. Whatever its symbolic import in “Redoubt” (and Mr. Barney gives us plenty to work with, notably shots of the constellation Lupus), the wolf is also a living embodiment of the clash between Washington and anti-statist Idaho communities whose libertarianism comes in both mild and extremist strains. This project’s Diana is an American original, and hunts not as divine action but from political convictions.“Redoubt” tracks Diana and her two Virgins in search of their prey. (The cinematography is by Mr. Barney’s longtime collaborator Peter Strietmann, who pictures the mountains in a breathtaking palette of steely blues and grays, though he relies too much on drone shots that have already become travel-dad YouTube clichйs.) The only other human up in the mountains is an Engraver, played by Mr. Barney with a bushy white beard, who observes the women at a distance and etches their hunt on sheets of copper. His character is an artist, but also a federal employee: Note the United States Forest Service patch on his ski cap and green jacket.Each day, he drives to the trailer home of an Electroplater (played by K.J. Holmes, a renowned dance artist). She dunks his copper etchings in chemical baths, and, with the help of rudimentary batteries, coats them with a new metal crust. The etchings appear, transformed, in the exhibition here at Yale: pictures of Diana, of wolves and of the Idaho mountains that are encrusted with metal nodules and scorched in places after too long in the chemical bath.The show also includes a few larger-scale sculptures cast from fallen trees, which have much in common with the explosive bronze splashes made at the time of “River of Fundament” and seen at the Museum of Contemporary Art in Los Angeles. But it’s the electroplated etchings, sometimes daintily figurative and sometimes scarred into abstraction, that most fully express the aims of “Redoubt,” reflecting an artist seeking newer, freer shores. That freedom extends to another medium: dance. The revelation of “Redoubt” is Eleanor Bauer, who plays one of Diana’s two Virgins and choreographed the bulk of the film’s movement. (Like most of Mr. Barney’s films — except “River of Fundament,” in which Ms. Bauer also appears — this one has no dialogue.) She and Laura Stokes, playing the other Virgin, communicate through gesture and performance as they hunt. The women roll their legs over snow banks, writhe in a hammock and balance their weight against each other while bathing in a hot spring.  One even strings the other from a tree with climber’s rope, lifting her like a lupine carcass. In another dance sequence, Sandra Lamouche, a performer of the Bigstone Cree Nation, executes a hoop dance in an abandoned American Legion hall. Her brief appearance reaffirms that, where so much of Mr. Barney’s earlier work sought to disrupt binary understandings of identity, “Redoubt” is mostly focused on white bodies, and how white Americans live, colonize and kill in one of the continent’s most exquisite ecosystems.Ms. Bauer’s choreography draws heavily on Steve Paxton’s practice of contact improvisation, in which dancers respond to and anticipate each other’s motions. There are echoes, too, of Trish Brown’s gravity-defying dances with ropes and harnesses — especially when Ms. Bauer climbs a huge charred tree and splays her body horizontally. This stunning image of Ms. Bauer rigged in a climber’s harness, suspended hundreds of feet up in the Idaho air, has almost none of the mythopoetic baggage that weighed down “River of Fundament.” “Redoubt” plants itself in a place and time when the promises of democratic participation are unraveling, and where “prepper” fantasies of societal collapse intertwine with more justified fears of ecological degradation. And these more immediate concerns have produced a different sort of film, less awesome but more urgent, in which the bodies on screen find an unexpected freedom.This new work may therefore have less in common with “Cremaster” and “River of Fundament” than with the most primordial Barney works: his decades-long “Drawing Restraint” series, in which the artist draws on walls while dragging weights or while tethered by bungee cords. (The first of them took place in 1987, here at Yale.) It turns out that Ms. Bauer has also recently executed new phases of “Drawing Restraint,” at Mr. Barney’s invitation. In those works and this one, Mr. Barney seems to be forging a more emancipated kind of collaboration, more trusting that another body can replace his own.